N.B. COVID-19 roundup: 8 new cases reported, positive case at Edmundston Superstore HOME MAIL NEWS SPORTS FINANCE CELEBRITY STYLE MOVIES WEATHER ANSWERS MOBILE Yahoo News Search query Sign in Mail Sign in to view your mail News News Coronavirus Coronavirus Originals Originals Canada Canada World World Business Business Entertainment Entertainment Sports Sports Science & Tech Science & Tech Weather Weather More More CBC N.B. COVID-19 roundup: 8 new cases reported, positive case at Edmundston Superstore Read full article December 4, 2020, 11:24 p.m.·6 min read N.B. COVID-19 roundup: 8 new cases reported, positive case at Edmundston Superstore Eight new cases of the novel coronavirus were reported in the province on Friday, including four in Zone 4, the Edmundston region, where a grocery store worker tested positive. Loblaw confirmed Friday that an employee at the chain's Atlantic Superstore store in Edmundston has tested positive for COVID-19. The employee's last day of work was Nov. 26. Loblaw said team members who worked closely with this individual are at home in self-isolation, monitoring for any symptoms. The store is working with New Brunswick Public Health to ensure the safety of its customers, including following cleaning and disinfection measures in the store and notifying anyone who may have been in contact with the employee, Loblaw said. The Edmundston region has had 13 cases of COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic, with five of those reported this week. The four new cases reported Friday in the Edmundston region include three people 19 years old or younger and an adult in their 40s. Zone 2, the Saint John region, recorded two more cases, one person in their 50s and another in their 60s. Zones 1 and 3, the Moncton and Fredericton regions, respectively, each reported a single new case. The Moncton case is someone in their 30s, and the Fredericton case is someone in their 60s. The total number of New Brunswick COVID-19 cases so far is now 528. There have been eight recoveries since Thursday, so the active case count stands at 111. There were 1,686 tests done since this time Thursday, bringing the total number of tests to 131,656. Seven people have died, and no one is in hospital. Public Health did not hold a news conference Friday. McGill University Health Centre Research Institute Researchers say province's north at risk Researchers at the University of New Brunswick say people living in the northern part of the province are more vulnerable to negative outcomes from COVID-19. The researchers's examined COVID-19 risk indicators that could help with community planning and recovery efforts, said Sandra Magalhaes, lead researcher at the New Brunswick Institute for Research, Data and Training at UNB. Story continues "The goal really was to increase awareness of our research to be able to engage with different groups to identity what are their priorities," said Magalhaes said. The researchers made three findings: Nearly one in every five adults in northern New Brunswick has two or more relevant health conditions that increase the risk of negative outcomes connected to COVID-19. In Northern New Brunswick, there is a greater proportion of people who have been hospitalized because of a mental health condition in the last 10 years. People over 65 are living alone in 20 to 22 per cent of houses, compared with about 15 per cent in the urban cores of Fredericton and Moncton. Magalhaes said that for seniors, living alone during the pandemic can lead to feelings of social isolation and a difficulty accessing essential services as physical distancing rules continue. In southern New Brunswick, such isolation was less common, although Minto, about 50 kilometres northeast of Fredericton, also has a large proportion of seniors living alone. The researchers also looked at people with existing health problems, including mental health issues. "In bracing for future months, we aim to understand which groups may be more vulnerable to negative physical consequences of COVID-19 and may thus require additional resources and support in these challenging times." Magalhaes said more information should help government better allocate money to areas where the help is needed most. It will also help the two regional health authorities and community organizations plan. The second part of this report is expected to be published in early 2021. Mask exemption protocols unclear to people with disabilities The chair of the Premier's Council on Disabilities says he's trying to clarify the protocols for people who have medical exemptions from mandatory mask rules. Randy Dickinson was responding Friday to concerns expressed by a Moncton mother, who has been refused entry to her local grocery store when with her 16-year-old son Jayden Moore, who has been exempted from wearing a mask. Earlier this week, Christine Roberts said Jayden got a doctor's note for an exemption because he's been diagnosed as moderate to high-functioning on the autism spectrum, with sensory processing disorder and high anxiety. Submitted by Christine Roberts Dickinson said he's had difficulty getting clear information about the mask exemption on behalf of people with disabilities and their caregivers. "There's no clear protocol that I can find to let people know how they go about confirming that they qualify for the so-called exemption and more importantly, when people are out and about in the community," he said. Submitted/Randy Dickinson "Should there be some kind of ID card or something that they could carry in their wallet?" Dickinson said he plans to pursue the issue further with New Brunswick Health Minister Dorothy Shephard. He's also calling on neighbours and family members to do what they can to support people with disabilities during the pandemic, such as by offering to deliver groceries or providing respite care. Rethinking orange Dr. Jennifer Russell, chief medical officer of health, says officials will be doing a risk assessment on Sunday for the Fredericton and Moncton regions to determine if they can be moved ahead to the less restrictive yellow phase, where four health zones are already. She wasn't clear whether an announcement would be made Sunday. CBC News Potential public exposure warnings for Saint John, Moncton Public Health has warned of the following possible exposures to the virus in the Saint John and Moncton areas, including gyms, stores, bars, restaurants and on flights. Saint John area Churchill's Pub on Nov. 20, at 8 Grannan St., between 8:30 p.m. and 10 p.m., Saint John. Picaroons on Nov. 21, at 30 Canterbury St., between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., Saint John. Thandi's Restaurant on Nov. 21 between 7:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. 33 Canterbury St., Saint John Merle Norman Cosmetic Studio on Nov. 19 between 12:30 p.m. and 3 p.m., 47 Clark Rd., Rothesay Moncton GoodLife Fitness on Nov. 21 at 555 Dieppe Blvd, Dieppe, between 1 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. Flights into Moncton: Air Canada Flight 8372 onNov. 28 from Fort McMurray to Calgary, departed 6:10 a.m Air Canada Flight 144 onNov. 28 from Calgary to Toronto, departed at 11:15 a.m. Air Canada Flight 8918 onNov. 28 from Toronto to Moncton, departed at 8:30 p.m. Air Canada Flight 178 on Nov. 19 from Edmonton to Toronto, arrived at 5:58 a.m. Air Canada Flight 404 on Nov. 19 from Toronto to Montreal, arrived at 10:16 a.m. Air Canada Flight 8902 on Nov. 19 from Montreal to Moncton, arrived at 4:17 p.m. What to do if you have a symptom People concerned they might have COVID-19 symptoms can take a self-assessment test online. Public Health says symptoms shown by people with COVID-19 have included: A fever above 38 C. A new cough or worsening chronic cough. Sore throat. Runny nose. Headache. New onset of fatigue, muscle pain, diarrhea, loss of sense of taste or smell. Difficulty breathing. In children, symptoms have also included purple markings on the fingers and toes. People with one of those symptoms should: Stay at home. Call Tele-Care 811 or their doctor. Describe symptoms and travel history. Follow instructions. TRENDING 1. Supreme Court again asked to block Biden win in Pennsylvania 2. Georgia GOP seeks mail-in ballot changes after Biden's win 3. US intelligence director says China is top threat to America 4. Wisconsin high court declines to hear Trump election lawsuit 5. Two Grand Slam events added to curling bubble at Canada Olympic Park in Calgary Latest Stories Local Journalism Initiative University refutes whistleblower, wrongful dismissal allegations The University of Northern British Columbia is denying a former employee's claim that she was wrongfully dismissed because she blew the whistle on alleged improper conduct by the university's upper management. In a response filed November 19 at the Prince George courthouse, UNBC says Heather Sanford was let go as the university secretary on March 13 to help deal with a $3.5 million budget shortfall at the university. UNBC says Sanford's position was being covered through "soft funding" and because of that, the position was being held on a "term basis" through a series of contracts, the last of which was set to expire at the end of June. In a statement of claim filed in October, Sanford says had been dismissed because she had "blown the whistle" on how various matters related to the Board of Governors were handled, notably a salary increase for UNBC's then-president Daniel Weeks and terms of separation for then-vice president of finance Barb Daigle. "The Plaintiff essentially claims that her employment was terminated because she was critical of how UNBC discharged its administrative and governance functions," UNBC says. "That claim is false and the Defendant puts the Plaintiff to the strict proof of each of her allegations and the reasons therefore." As university secretary, Sanford says she was responsible for "ensuring the effective and efficient operation of UNBC's administrative and academic governing bodies." But in the response, UNBC suggests Sanford's authority was limited to "advisory only." "It (her position) has no gatekeeping or oversight function and is not charged with vetting or approving any governance issues. The Office has no decision making authority with respect to any governance issues." UNBC goes on to say it acted in accordance with advice provided by the Public Sector Employers Council with respect to Weeks' salary increase and with legal advice with respect to making public the terms of separation reached with Daigle when she left in January. However, while UNBC says Sanford was let go on a "without cause basis," it also notes that interim president Geoff Payne found Sanford "came across as confrontational," and wanted her to be "more collaborative which is better aligned with how universities generally approach decision making." But with her contract about to expire at the end of June, and with Sanford on stress leave by that time, UNBC says Payne determined it would be unfair to engage her with respect to her communication style and that she was still remunerated to the end of her contract, despite ending her employment early. The claim also notes that Sanford is married to Dan Ryan, who during his time as UNBC's interim provost and vice president academic, filled in as acting president when then-president Daniel Weeks was absent. Given her husband's role, it would have been inappropriate for Sanford to sit in on closed Board of Governors meetings when issues related to the president were discussed, UNBC says. When Weeks went on medical leave in January 2020, it was Payne, not Ryan, who took over as interim president. Ryan, meanwhile, resigned from his position in August and went on research leave. UNBC also disputes Sanford's claim that she was excluded from a review of governance at the university. While Sanford maintained the review should have been carried out by her office, UNBC says she was interviewed by a third party, consultant Harriet Lewis, who was put in charge of the review while former UNBC president Charles Jago was named a supporting advisor. Sanford's "observations were included in the external review report."Mark Nielsen, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Prince George Citizen 21 hours ago Initiative de journalisme local Un entraînement militaire soulève des questions La tenue d’un exercice d’instruction sur la base de Valcartier par plusieurs militaires membres du Régiment du Saguenay, du 20 au 22 novembre dernier, soulève des interrogations et des craintes pour la famille de l’un d’entre eux en raison des risques potentiels de propagation de la COVID-19. Au cours des derniers jours, un citoyen de Chicoutimi, dont le fils est membre du Régiment du Saguenay et qui vit sous le même toit que ses parents, s’est interrogé sur la pertinence de tenir des exercices militaires regroupant plusieurs dizaines de personnes dans les deux zones rouges nécessitant le transport des participants. Selon le récit de l’interlocuteur, le jeune homme a été transporté en minibus jusqu’à Valcartier avec tout son équipement à bord en respectant la mesure de distanciation tandis que le port du masque aurait été plus ou moins respecté, une affirmation difficile à vérifier. Le parent concerné aurait tenté de dissuader le fils d’âge majeur de participer à l’exercice militaire, mais il aurait répondu que ses petits frères et sœurs allaient à l’école, ce qui le légitimait de se rendre à Valcartier. « La participation au Régiment du Saguenay se fait sur une base volontaire. Il y a des pères de famille là-dedans. Notre crainte est que mon fils revienne avec le virus et nous contamine, moi et ma conjointe, qui sommes confinés en télétravail, ainsi que ses petits frères et sœurs. On comprend que le Régiment du Saguenay est sa seule source de revenus », mentionne ce parent inquiet. Mis au fait de la situation, l’adjudant-chef du Régiment du Saguenay, François Girard, confirme que 43 membres du régiment, dont lui-même, ainsi que des membres de la réserve oeuvrant comme policiers à la Base miliaire de Bagotville, ont été transportés à Québec pour des manœuvres d’instruction. Des exercices d’attaques en zone rurale, de patrouille de reconnaissance et de rappel sur tour ont été effectués. L’adjudant-chef assure que toutes les mesures édictées par la Santé publique ont dû être respectées à partir du transport des militaires, qui a été effectué avec des autobus d’une capacité de 47 passagers remplis à 50 %, jusqu’aux mesures de distanciation sur le terrain. M. Girard nie que les masques ont été enlevés à bord. M. Girard précise que depuis le printemps, le Régiment du Saguenay a été mis en pause et a dû annuler une quantité importante d’activités prévues au calendrier tandis que plusieurs membres du commandement oeuvrent en télétravail. L’autre réalité est que les militaires doivent continuer de conserver leurs capacités opérationnelles afin de pouvoir faire face à toute situation d’urgence, opérations terrain, sauvetage, etc., ce qui exige la tenue d’entraînements collectifs comme ceux tenus à la fin novembre. « Dans nos directives, tout est observé quant au respect des règles. Il nous faut des gens qui vont continuer à faire ce qu’ils ont à faire. Pour ça, il nous faut être en santé. Aussitôt qu’on a des doutes, on ferme les unités. » M. Girard conclut que la participation aux exercices collectifs au sein du Régiment du Saguenay se fait sur une base volontaire et que personne n’oblige les membres à être présents.Denis Villeneuve, Initiative de journalisme local, Le Quotidien 23 hours ago Ad•Raging Bull Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdHow He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home Kyle Dennis took a leap of faith and decided to invest his savings of $15K in the stock market — $2.8M later, he owes his success to these strategies Local Journalism Initiative 14-year old St. Catharines student spells W-I-N at national championship Niagara is now home to one of the best young spellers in Canada. Leena Jalees, 14, of St. Catharines took home the gold at this year’s Spelling Bee of Canada national championship, beating out 25 other competitors in the intermediate division (ages 12-14) across the country. Jalees, who has entered the regional competitions on two previous occasions, said this was her first time reaching the national level, after winning Niagara’s competition earlier in November. Jalees said she had always been a good speller, particularly when it came to everyday words, and thought entering a spelling bee would help her expand her spelling abilities when it came to new and unfamiliar words. “I thought it would be fun to learn new words, and become a better speller, and know the tactics of how to break down the words and be able to spell words I have never heard of before. So I decided to do a spelling bee, just to see how well I could do.” Jalees did more than okay. In her first appearance on the national stage, she was crowned the winner in the intermediate division of the Spelling Bee of Canada after correctly spelling the word “taxonomist”. For Jalees, the word was a no-brainier. “When I found out that was the word, I was so relieved because I was already familiar with that word. I already knew how to spell it, so I didn’t have to think about it.” So how does one study for a spelling bee? The competitors were given a manual of 400 words two and a half weeks prior to the competition, but that doesn’t include tiebreaker words, which are entirely new, and come down to the participants' ability to break down the word itself. Jalees said her strategy involves looking at the words as multiple units, and understanding the origin of the word itself. “One of the words was polemicist. I thought it was a medical word, but then when I knew it had to do with politics, then I decided to change the way I spelled it to ending in 'cist'. So I was very grateful I didn’t start spelling it the way I was initially going to.” Jalees, who hopes to one day be an OB/GYN said she hopes to defend her title at next year’s competition, as it may be her last year of eligibility. “I am going to try again next year, and see how well I can do again.” Also representing Niagara at the national championship were Jimmy Zhou, of Niagara Falls, who competed in the junior division (ages 9-11) and Shirley Chen, of St. Catharines, who competed in the primary division (ages 6-8).Bryan Levesque, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Grimsby Lincoln News 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Former ambassador to U.S. shares insights with Northern chambers While the aftermath of the American presidential election continues to unfold, it remains to be seen how exactly the shift of power from Donald Trump to Joe Biden will impact Canada-U.S. relations. A former international ambassador cautions it won’t be all sunshine and lollipops ahead for the generally friendly neighbours. Derek Burney, who was born in Fort William (now Thunder Bay) served as Canada’s ambassador to the U.S. from 1989 to 1993 under Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Burney is currently chancellor of Lakehead University, chairman of the Burney Investment Group, chairman of GardaWorld’s International Advisory Board, chairman of Enablence Technologies Inc., and a member of the advisory board of Paradigm Capital. He was named an Officer to the Order of Canada in 1993. Last week he gave an online address which was hosted by the Thunder Bay Chamber of Commerce, and simulcast by the chambers of Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, North Bay and Timmins. Burney opened by calling the U.S. election a “cathartic” event. “The aftershocks continue to resonate. The Electoral College will meet on Dec. 14 to certify the results, and formally declare Joe Biden as president.” He then spoke of the big takeaways he had from the election. “A huge turnout amplified by massive influxes of mail-in ballots helped ultimately tip the verdict to Joe Biden, even though Trump won 10 million more votes than he received in 2016.” Burney said the 'Blue Wave' that many pollsters had predicted did not materialize. “Too many pollsters seemed more inclined to affect, rather than reflect, the mood of American voters. Biden won with a tightly disciplined, low-key campaign, banking on the fact that he was not Trump, and that the election would be a referendum on Trump, not a choice between the two candidates.” Burney lamented that foreign policy was barely mentioned by either candidate throughout the campaign. “Personalities, character and COVID concerns dominated.” Burney pointed out that regardless of the outcome the United States is in a period of deep division. “The country remains highly polarized — split right down the middle and very difficult to govern. The Democrats are jubilant, but weary. The Republicans are subdued, but not submissive.” He said the election conveyed a messy image of American democracy to the world, and that it regrettably emboldened authoritarian leaders like China's President Xi Jinping, Russia’s Vladimir Putin, and Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdo?an to take advantage. Domestically, policy ideas from the Republicans and Democrats on matters such as taxes, immigration, health care and energy are seemingly polar opposites. “Biden will definitely bring a less abrasive tone, especially on global issues, but his ability to implement major changes on domestic issues will be circumscribed, if the Republicans hold the Senate. He will also need to consolidate consensus on policies and priorities first within his own party, which is more divided internally, than are the Republicans.” “Biden's pledge to heal and unite the nation is commendable, but maybe unrealistic.” On the positive side, Burney did remark that there was some scope for bipartisan consensus on issues like justice reform, infrastructure, and possibly healthcare. “But if the Congress remains divided, agreements will require nimble give-and-take negotiations. At least Biden and Republican Senator Mitch McConnell are both Senate veterans, and they begin with a degree of mutual respect, a spirit that was entirely lacking between Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.” Regarding Canada and how a new government will affect Canadian business, Burney, said Biden will be more congenial with U.S. allies. “After 47 years of service in Washington, he is no stranger to Canada, nor to our Prime Minister and other alliance leaders. That alone is good news.” However, Burney said that in reality, the Canada-U.S. relationship is “no longer special” and that Biden’s domestic policies are a mixed bag for Canada moving forward. “Those favouring more action on climate change will be pleased by his quick decision to rejoin the Paris Accord. I personally would be happier if he were also committed to ensuring more timely, and more tangible commitments by major polluters like China and India. The imbalance is startling.” He also cautioned that Western Canada could be in for more challenging times concerning the oil and gas sector if Biden’s positions come to fruition. “If he fulfils his pledge to cancel the Keystone XL pipeline permit, that would be devastating for our energy sector. In my view, such action would be blatantly discriminatory and should be challenged forcefully by our government, not just the pipeline companies.” The first few months of 2021 will be highly interesting for economic observers on both sides of the border as the two nations, the largest trading partners on the planet, scramble to get their economies rolling again during a global health crisis. “Because we are joined at the hip economically with the U.S., we stand to gain when their economy is robust, and conversely when the U.S. economy slumps, so does ours. That is why my fervid hope is that Joe Biden puts economy recovery first and foremost on his agenda.” Burney told the business-oriented viewers what his overall message is. “At a time of greater instability and uncertainty in the world, my most important message to you is that greater self-reliance is becoming the order of the day. As business operators, you need to be mindful of that increasing trend. Find ways to produce more of what is needed right here in Canada, and rely less on global supply chains that can easily be disrupted, as our experience with COVID, badly demonstrated.”Andrew Autio, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Daily Press 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Gander native bringing annual comedy show back home When the COVID-19 pandemic hit in the spring, the ramifications sent artists into a tailspin. Musicians, comedians and others who make their living performing in front of people saw their industries put on hold as the coronavirus forced governments to enact lockdowns as a safety measure. In the last couple of months, the arts have started to show a resurgence. Artists have got back to plying their trade and performing to audiences. Albeit those audiences are smaller due to the restrictions that are still in place. “I’d rather be doing quarter capacity than sitting on my couch for four months straight,” said St. John’s-based comic and Gander native Matt Wright. Since September, Wright has got back to working as regularly as you can in these times. He is back writing for "This Hour Has 22 Minutes" — over Zoom calls — and he has filmed a pair of standup sets for festivals in Ontario and Nova Scotia. On top of that, Wright is keeping his Christmas show streak alive. He has a pair of shows scheduled for today and Saturday at the Joseph R. Smallwood Arts and Culture Centre in Gander. St. John’s comic Stephen Payette is also on the bill. “Like a lot of people, I didn’t have any work for a long time during the beginning of (the pandemic) and it just went from doing puzzles and trying to grow parsley ... (to) as of September I’ve been working non-stop,” he said. For others, comedy during the pandemic has meant getting used to performing in front of audiences in different ways. That might mean performing over a Zoom call or streaming a show over a social media platform. St. John’s comic John Sheehan said the pandemic has altered his profession from a logistical standpoint. It also means becoming acquainted with performing to screens and fewer people, while adjusting to not having the audience to play off of. “It just takes getting used to a new aspect of it,” he said. As comedy starts to get rolling again, the content matter is sure to start reflecting society and the experiences of each comedian during the lockdown. Wright has found he has drifted a little bit toward writing about that experience, but still, there are challenges. “It’s weird,” he said. “For joke writing, you’re reliant on stuff happening to you and new stimulus. Once the restrictions eased a bit in Newfoundland, I started writing. “But when I was sitting around the house the first two months we were in absolute lockdown, I wasn’t doing any of that.” This will be the seventh year that Wright has held a Christmas show, and it is fair to say this will be his most unusual one yet. First, there is the date. In a normal year, the show would likely take place a couple of days after Christmas Day. In 2019, the Gander show came after a tour of the province’s arts and culture centres. The other unusual bit is the parameters of each show due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the regulations that surround it. Both shows are operating at just less than half capacity and they are being limited to just an hour. Either way, the audience will get the same brand of comedy from Wright. It's a show Wright looks forward to every year. “It is always nice to be playing at home,” he said. Nicholas Mercer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Central Voice 21 hours ago Ad•Yahoo FeelGood Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdTake Time to Stop and Smile Brighten your day with the content from Yahoo FeelGood Local Journalism Initiative Powassan receives praise, warning While the Municipality of Powassan has received a “clean audit report,” there are dark clouds on the horizon as the full effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have yet to be felt. In a report to council delivered virtually, chartered professional accountant Dean Decaire of BDO Canada in North Bay said “there are no errors or irregularities” in Powassan's 2019 financial statement. But, although taxes received in 2019 amounted to $755,596, tax arrears stood at $319,302. And while Decaire said he hoped the municipality had exercised “strong collection” practices this year to rein in the late taxes, “COVID-19 happened and it may have impeded tax collections for 2020.” The municipality, Mayor Peter McIsaac told Decaire, has been “working on rectifying” that situation. “It's a priority,” McIsaac said. “We have to make sure we collect our taxes from residents and businesses.” Later in his presentation Decaire added a section dealing with the impact COVID-19 could have on the community in future. He said Powassan isn't alone and virtually all municipalities will face financial impacts from the virus. “At this time, the full potential impact of COVID-19 on the municipality is not known,” he wrote in his report. Decaire says the actual disruptions the virus has caused are expected to be temporary, but because the circumstances are dynamic in nature, the length of the disruptions and the related financial impacts can't “be reasonably estimated at this time.” Decaire also addressed the municipality's future ability to deliver essential and non-essential services as a result of COVID-19. When it comes to non-essential services, Decaire said, Powassan's ability to keep delivering these services and to continue employing the related staff will depend on what help comes from the provincial and federal governments. With regard to delivering essential services, Powassan must focus on collecting the money it's owed, continue managing its expenditures, leverage its existing reserves and access “available credit facilities,” Decaire said. He said it is “fabulous” the municipality continues to pay down on its long-term debt, which was $4.2 million at the end of 2019, or $118,000 less than 2018. Decaire also noted Powassan does a good job of controlling its operating expenses, which amount to $6 million a year. It posted a $742,000 budget surplus in 2019, in part due to government grants. Decaire commended council for making “significant” infrastructure investments. In the past two years, the municipality has spent more than $5 million to improve its infrastructure. Decaire made a point of saying residents often won't easily see the infrastructure because much of it involves water and sewer projects beneath the ground. Rocco Frangione is a Local Journalism Initiative reporter who works out of the North Bay Nugget. The Local Journalism Initiative is funded by the Government of Canada.Rocco Frangione, Local Journalism Initiative, The North Bay Nugget 22 hours ago The Canadian Press Here's a quick glance at unemployment rates for November, by Canadian city OTTAWA — The national unemployment rate was 8.5 per cent in November. Statistics Canada also released seasonally adjusted, three-month moving average unemployment rates for major cities. It cautions, however, that the figures may fluctuate widely because they are based on small statistical samples. Here are the jobless rates last month by city (numbers from the previous month in brackets):— St. John's, N.L. 9.3 per cent (8.8)— Halifax 6.6 per cent (7.7)— Moncton, N.B. 8.9 per cent (8.3)— Saint John, N.B. 10.2 per cent (10.0)— Saguenay, Que. 5.2 per cent (5.0)— Quebec City 4.3 per cent (4.5)— Sherbrooke, Que. 6.4 per cent (7.0)— Trois-Rivieres, Que. 5.7 per cent (6.0)— Montreal 8.5 per cent (9.6)— Gatineau, Que. 7.2 per cent (7.9)— Ottawa 7.1 per cent (8.2)— Kingston, Ont. 7.2 per cent (8.5)— Peterborough, Ont. 11.9 per cent (11.7)— Oshawa, Ont. 7.9 per cent (8.3)— Toronto 10.7 per cent (11.5)— Hamilton, Ont. 8.0 per cent (9.2)— St. Catharines-Niagara, Ont. 7.2 per cent (7.5)— Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo, Ont. 9.1 per cent (10.8)— Brantford, Ont. 6.6 per cent (7.2)— Guelph, Ont. 7.0 per cent (8.3)— London, Ont. 8.4 per cent (8.9)— Windsor, Ont. 10.6 per cent (10.8)— Barrie, Ont. 10.6 per cent (9.2)— Greater Sudbury, Ont. 7.6 per cent (7.9)— Thunder Bay, Ont. 7.5 per cent (7.6)— Winnipeg 8.1 per cent (8.7)— Regina 5.4 per cent (6.1)— Saskatoon 7.8 per cent (8.1)— Calgary 10.7 per cent (11.3)— Edmonton 11.3 per cent (12.0)— Kelowna, B.C. 4.7 per cent (6.2)— Abbotsford-Mission, B.C. 8.1 per cent (8.6)— Vancouver 8.1 per cent (9.7)— Victoria 6.3 per cent (7.6)This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4, 2020 and was generated automatically.The Canadian Press a day ago CBC Common-law spouse among 3 charged with giving N.S. shooter ammunition The common-law spouse of the man responsible for killing 22 people in April's mass shooting in Nova Scotia has been charged with providing the gunman with ammunition he used during the rampage, but police say she and two relatives who are also charged did not know how it would be used. Lisa Diana Banfield, 52, of Dartmouth is alleged to have unlawfully transferred .223-calibre Remington cartridges and .40-calibre Smith & Wesson cartridges between March 17 and April 18, 2020. James Blair Banfield, 64, of Beaver Bank, N.S., and Brian Brewster, 60, of Lucasville, N.S., are also facing the same charge under Section 101 of the Criminal Code.RCMP would not comment on the relationship between Lisa Banfield and the two men. CBC News has learned the men are the older brother and brother-in-law of Lisa Banfield. RCMP said in a news release Friday that the three had "no prior knowledge of the gunman's actions on April 18 and 19." That weekend, Gabriel Wortman killed 22 neighbours, acquaintances and strangers in several communities in rural Nova Scotia while masquerading as an RCMP officer.He torched his own cottage and garage, and three other homes over a 13-hour period before being shot dead by police at a gas station in Enfield, N.S., after a lengthy search.RCMP say the ammunition was purchased in Nova Scotia.On Friday, Lisa Banfield's lawyer declined to comment on the charge. History of domestic violenceBanfield is suing Wortman's estate, which was initially valued at more than $1.2 million. In her statement of claim, which was filed with the Nova Scotia Supreme Court, she said she was the victim of an assault and battery, and she suffered physical, emotional and psychological injuries and trauma. In June, she also renounced her right to be the executor of his will. There is a separate proposed class-action lawsuit against the gunman's estate that alleges it is liable to the families of the victims who lost their lives or those who were injured due to his actions.Several people told investigators that the gunman had a history of violence and was abusive, according to search warrant documents. A woman who used to live in Portapique said in 2013 she reported to RCMP that the denturist had illegal weapons and had tried to strangle Banfield.Brenda Forbes said she's never heard what happened to her complaint. But she said RCMP officers told her at the time that since she didn't have photos of the weapons and Banfield had not lodged a complaint, they were limited in what they could do. The day the rampage started, Wortman and Banfield were celebrating their anniversary, according to the court documents. The couple worked together and lived above Wortman's denture clinic on Portland Street in Dartmouth and spent time at the cottage they shared in Portapique. Banfield has never spoken publicly about what happened in April.RCMP have said the violence started when the gunman attacked and restrained her. She escaped and later told investigators she initially hid in a truck before spending hours in a wooded area in Portapique before knocking on a neighbour's door around 6 a.m., according to a summary of interviews she gave RCMP.All three accused are scheduled to be arraigned in Dartmouth provincial court on Jan. 27.Illegal weapons usedInvestigators have previously said they don't believe the gunman had a firearms licence.Police have never released the exact type of weapons Wortman used in the rampage, but they've said he obtained pistols and rifles illegally. Three came from the U.S. and one came from the estate of someone he knew in Canada.Through an access-to-information request, The National Post learned Wortman used two semi-automatic rifles and two pistols in the rampage. The details were revealed in briefing notes to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Wortman also took the service pistol belonging to Const. Heidi Stevenson, who he killed in Shubenacadie.On Friday, RCMP declined to answer questions about the charges, the first laid in relation to the mass shootings."To ensure a fair trial for those who have been charged and with the public inquiry now ongoing, the most appropriate and unbiased opportunity to provide any additional information is to do so with our full participation in the inquiry," said Supt. Darren Campbell in a statement. The final report from a public inquiry is expected in November 2022. Charges a 'relief' for familiesLawyer Robert Pineo, who is representing the families of the victims, said they are "relieved" about the charges."They've felt throughout that this was a major piece of the puzzle that was missing. Through circumstantial evidence and some information from the community, [they] have felt there was some involvement beyond the killer himself," said Pineo. "So this information has helped put their minds at ease, to a point."His clients are involved in two class-action lawsuits: one against the killer's estate, and one against the province and the RCMP for the police response during the tragedy.Pineo said his clients feel like the RCMP haven't been "open at all" throughout their investigation."There has been sporadic communication with the families, but usually nothing of substance, as far as who's being investigated, what avenues are being investigated — even information about their own deceased family members has been lacking," he said. "So the more information that comes forward, the more relief they feel."Michael Arntfield, a criminologist at Western University in London, Ont., agreed there has been little information provided throughout the investigation."That's their prerogative, but [the new charges] provides some reassurance that investigation now has been confirmed to have been underway behind the scenes, and that people who aided and abetted Mr. Wortman will have to answer to that," he said.Arntfield suspects more charges could be laid. He said there are still many unanswered questions about things like the gunman's mocked-up police vehicle and how he was able to obtain his illegal weapons."These latest charges show that Wortman was not a one-man operation and he relied on accessories," Arntfield said. "There's just too many moving parts for him to have pulled this off unassisted."He said the decision to charge the gunman's common-law spouse is "going to be fraught with problems."On one hand, he said it's clear that Banfield had knowledge of Wortman's weapons and police regalia, but on the other, "you have a documented victim of domestic violence who, obviously, wouldn't feel safe necessarily disclosing this to the police.""Her role as a stakeholder was identified by the police as only a victim, and now it seems there's been an about-face on that," said Arntfield. "So, what we're missing is the pieces in between that would confirm why that change was deemed necessary." 22 hours ago Ad•Club Mahindra Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdGo On A 4N/5D* Diwali Holiday Enjoy magical holidays safely with us, Become a member and light up this Diwali with a FREE 4N/5D* holiday. The Canadian Press Trudeau stresses digital tech's potential — and dangers — at global AI summit MONTREAL — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau kicked off the inaugural meeting of a global council on artificial intelligence by warning of the danger of unbridled digital technology, despite its potential to change the world for the better.The virtual summit marks the latest step in the slow march toward international co-operation on digital governance amid growing concerns over data privacy, built-in bias and deployment in war.Canada first set out on that path two years ago, unveiling plans with France for a standing AI forum during a meeting of G7 countries in Quebec.Since then, 13 other states have signed on to the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence to guide policy development with an eye to human rights, establishing expert panels and involving government, industry and academia.Speaking ahead of French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday, Trudeau said AI has the potential to combat diseases and climate change, but also to "create new challenges if left unchecked."Last month, the Liberal government tabled legislation to give Canadians more control over their information in the digital age, with potentially stiff fines for companies that flout the rules.This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4, 2020.The Canadian Press 22 hours ago CBC Windsor-Essex hospitals sound alarm over rising COVID-19 cases Three Windsor-Essex hospitals have issued a strong warning over the current surge in COVID-19 cases — and what could happen if the trend continues.In a joint statement, they pleaded with the public to continue to do their part to prevent the spread of the virus."The scenario that our Windsor-Essex region residents have seen on TV taking place in other jurisdictions around the world, where hospital resources are stretched beyond capacity, is showing signs of occurring in our area of the province," chief executives from Hôtel-Dieu Grace Healthcare, Windsor Regional Hospital and Erie Shores Healthcare said Friday.Recent COVID-19 outbreaks at Hôtel-Dieu Grace and Windsor Regional risk "significant reductions" in bed capacity, while use of beds is already above 100 per cent, they said."As hospital bed capacity deteriorates, clinical teams will have no option other than to cancel scheduled surgeries and other procedures to ensure we have bed space available for emergency and other urgent cases," they stated.There are currently 27 people in hospital with COVID-19 and seven in ICU, according to the Windsor-Essex County Public Health Unit (WECHU). "There is definitely a lot of pressure on the health-care system in the region and also across Southwestern Ontario, Dr. Wajid Ahmed, medical officer of health with WECHU, said Friday.The health unit announced 65 new cases on Friday, bringing the active case total to 424.21 outbreaks in Windsor-EssexDr. Ahmed said there's also record number of outbreaks in the region — 21 across workplaces, long-term care homes and other institutions."We have never had that many outbreaks, clearly indicating that we need to do more," Dr. Ahmed said.As of the most recent data, which Dr. Ahmed presented on Friday, Windsor's seven-day average test positivity rate is 4.3 per cent -- the fourth highest in the province behind Toronto, Peel and York regions.Analysis of the presence of the virus wastewater suggests rates of infection exceed the number of known cases, Ahmed said.Not moving to lockdown Despite the rising cases, the province did not announce a lockdown for Windsor-Essex on Friday, meaning the region remains in the red "control" zone of COVID-19 restrictions in place since Monday.Dr. Ahmed said earlier on Friday that he didn't anticipate a lockdown would be announced, though earlier in the week he said the region is at risk of heightened restrictions."We would like to see the results of us in the red zone first before we move on to any criteria at this time," he said.Snapshot of the pandemic in Windsor-EssexSince the pandemic started, 3,864 cases have been diagnosed in Windsor-Essex, 3,358 of which have been resolved.Eighty-two people have lost their lives to COVID-19, including 56 death in longterm care and retirement homes.Of the 65 cases announced across the region Friday , five are close contacts of a confirmed case, two were community acquired, 58 are still under investigation. Twenty-seven people are in hospital, with seven in the intensive care unit.There are 21 outbreaks in the community, including eight at workplaces. * Three in Leamington's agriculture sector. * One in Lakeshore's health care and social assistance sector. * One in a Leamington place of worship. * One in Leamington's finance and insurance sector. * One in Windsor's manufacturing sector. * One in Kingsville's manufacturing sectorTwo community outbreaks are still active: one at Victoria Manor Supportive Living in Windsor and another at Riverplace Residence in Windsor. There are three school outbreaks: Corpus Christi Catholic Middle School - Central Park Athletics Campus, Frank W. Begley Public School and W. J. Langlois Catholic Elementary School. The latter two schools have been closed for two weeks. Officials are working on a reopening plan for both schools.There are outbreaks at six long-term care and retirement homes: * Chartwell St. Clair Beach in Tecumseh with one resident case. * Village of Aspen Lake in Tecumseh with one staff case. * Leamington Mennonite in Leamington with two staff cases. * Chartwell Royal Oak Residence in Kingsville with two staff cases. * Riverside place in Windsor with 17 resident cases and three staff cases. * Iler Lodge in Essex with 18 resident cases and three staff cases. 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Humboldt Special Olympics Floor Hockey Team takes home team of the year The Humboldt Special Olympics Floor Hockey Team took home the Special Olympics Canada Team of the Year Award. TSN hosted the award ceremony on Facebook Live on Dec. 3 with athletes and coaches sending in their thank you videos for the ceremony. The team has been collecting the hardware over the last two years with a bronze medal win during the 2019 Special Olympics Ontario Invitational youth games in Toronto and another bronze win at the Special Olympics Canada Winter Games in Thunder Bay 2020. Floor hockey has been part of the Humboldt Special Olympics sporting list for the last 16 years. Ever since the team lost fellow teammate, Brody Hinz, in the Humboldt Broncos bus crash, the team has played to honour him, said Vic Rauter, a TSN announcer, during the ceremony. “Since the loss of their friend and teammate, the Special Olympics Humboldt Broncos floor hockey team have been on a mission to honour those lost and those who were affected.” This award comes on the cusp of two provincial awards in October, another team award for the floor hockey team and a coaching award from coach Brain Reifferscheid. Reifferscheid said the award was unexpected and the coaches and players are pretty happy and proud and excited and humbled by the honour, he said. The provincial award was enough of a surprise for the team to wrap their heads around and celebrate but it was not long after before they were contacted by Special Olympics Canada about their national award. This will be the second year in a row that a Humboldt Special Olympics athlete or team has received a national award from Special Olympics Canada, with Tianna Zimmerman from Englefeld taking home Athlete of the Year during the 2019 award ceremony as well as the provincial honour that same year, just like the floor hockey team. This two year stretch at both the national and provincial level said a lot about the Special Olympics Humboldt, Reifferscheid said. “We've got a group of athletes that are very sports-minded and committed to achieving high goals. It also says something about the Special Olympics Humboldt organization, all the volunteers and coaches and all the sports. Everyone has a piece of contributing to helping athletes be successful.” On behalf of the Humboldt Special Olympics floor hockey team, they are honoured to receive this award, Reifferscheid said.Becky Zimmer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 23 hours ago Ad•Morningstar Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. Ad2 Strategies To Get Out Of Debt Want to be loan free? Here is help on how to triumph in the battle with debt. Initiative de journalisme local Autre cas de maltraitance à Granby: le CIUSSS de l’Estrie refuse de répondre aux questions sur la DPJ SANTÉ. Par une triste coïncidence, c’est au moment où l’on apprenait un autre cas de maltraitance d’enfants à Granby où la DPJ s’est fait pointer du doigt pour son inaction que le CIUSSS de l’Estrie – CHUS a présenté son Rapport annuel de gestion 2019-2020. Bien que l’on y mentionne «les services de protection de l’enfance, une priorité absolue», Marie-France Thibeault, chef de service relations publiques et partenariats au Service des communications n’a pas cru bon acheminer les questions du GranbyExpress au président-directeur général, Stéphane Tremblay. «En lien avec la fillette de Granby et le cas révélé aujourd’hui (26 novembre), est-ce que des sanctions ont été imposées à des employés sous la responsabilité du CIUSSS de l’Estrie? Si oui, lesquelles? Si non, pourquoi?» Bien que l’on ait sollicité ses questions tant par courriel que lors du Facebook Live du 26 novembre dernier, l’organisation n’a pas répondu à nos demandes. «La séance d’information annuelle du conseil d’administration de ce soir n’est pas un point de presse. Nous pouvons parler des services jeunesse en général ou du plan d’action à venir, mais nous ne commenterons pas une situation particulière. Merci», a fait savoir Marie-France Thibeault, chef de service relations publiques et partenariats au Service des communications du CIUSSS de l’Estrie. Rappelons que le 13 novembre dernier, une mère de famille de Granby a été condamnée à une incarcération de huit ans pour des sévices effroyables qu’elle a fait subir à son fils de 17 ans. «À l’instar de deux pédiatres qui ont pris soin de X, le Tribunal considère que le présent dossier demeure un des pires cas de maltraitance à lui avoir été soumis», indique le juge de la Cour du Québec Conrad Chapdelaine dans son jugement. «S’acharner de cette façon sur un enfant blessé, défiguré, sans défense, devant se déplacer à quatre pattes pour se mouvoir ou s’occuper de ses deux jeunes frères, isolé socialement, sans aucun filet de protection, comme l’école par exemple, dépendant à tous points de vue de son seul parent, l’accusée, constitue un comportement d’une cruauté extrême», ajoute-t-il. Dans son jugement, Conrad Chapdelaine a également dénoncé la DPJ de l’Estrie. En effet, une dizaine de signalements concernant cette famille n’ont pas mené au retrait de l’enfant qui avait de nombreuses plaies, des os brisés et une maigreur effroyable qui s’apparentait aux victimes des camps de concentration selon Francis Livernoche, un des pédiatres qui l’a traité, a rapporté le journal La Presse. C’est l’appel aux policiers d’un huissier, Louis Martin, qui a découvert son état lamentable le 14 février 2019 lors de l’exécution d’une ordonnance d’éviction de la Régie du logement qui a mené à l’arrestation de la mère. Cet autre cas de maltraitance à Granby a trouvé écho en ouverture de la conférence de presse du premier ministre du Québec du 26 novembre. François Legault a qualifié la situation de «terrible» et «gênante». Stéphane Lévesque, Initiative de journalisme local, L'Hebdo Journal 23 hours ago CBC 4th person charged with assault in Nova Scotia after lobster plants vandalized A Digby County man has become the fourth person to face charges after a fish plant in New Edinburgh, N.S., was vandalized.On Thursday, Meteghan RCMP charged Randy Cyril German, 49, with assaulting a woman on Oct.14.German has been released on conditions. He is scheduled to appear in Digby provincial court on Feb. 15, 2021.It's the fourth charge related to tensions that exploded the day after several hundred commercial lobster fishermen ransacked two lobster plants in southwest Nova Scotia on Oct. 13. Mi'kmaw fishers had been storing their catches in the buildings.On Nov.14, RCMP charged 74-year-old Yvon Thibault of Digby County with two counts of assault in relation to the Oct. 14 incident. Another man had been arrested earlier for assaulting Sipekne'katik Chief Mike Sack that same day.Then on Nov.16, charged 22-year old Kristen Sack of Hants County with one count of assault."The events of that day are still being investigated," Sgt. Andrew Joyce, RCMP spokesperson, said Friday."We're still actively seeking input by anyone present there, or anyone that has some information."Joyce said the most recent incident took place sometime between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., but could not say whether German knew the woman he allegedly assaulted.The second plant in Middle West Pubnico was destroyed in a suspicious fire on Oct. 16. Police are seeking the public's help to identify two persons of interest.Anyone with information is asked to contact Meteghan RCMP at 902-645-2326 or Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-8477.Weeks of unrestAt the time of these incidents, tensions were running high between non-Indigenous commercial fishermen and First Nations fishermen who had started a moderate livelihood lobster fishery outside the federally mandated commercial season.Commercial fishermen have been accused of damaging Mi'kmaw fishing gear, torching a van and stealing lobster. Twenty-one years ago, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled the Mi'kmaq had the right to earn a "moderate livelihood" from fishing. The court later said the federal government could regulate the Mi'kmaw fishery but must justify any restrictions it placed on it.Many commercial lobster fishermen say they consider the new Sipekne'katik fishery in St. Marys Bay illegal and worry that catching lobster outside the mandated season, particularly during the summer spawning period, will negatively impact stocks.Chief Sack has said the band received a draft memorandum of understanding last week from the office of federal Fisheries Minister Bernadette Jordan, which at first he called a "big step."However, on Friday Sack said the band "remains very disappointed in the draft document's intent and content," and called on Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to step in.MORE TOP STORIES 21 hours ago The Canadian Press Montenegro's parliament approves new, pro-Serb government PODGORICA, Montenegro — Montenegro’s parliament on Friday voted to approve a new conservative, pro-Serb coalition government, which will succeed a pro-Western party that has ruled the small Balkan nation for almost three decades.Prime Minister Zdravko Krivokapic' cabinet is dominated by unelected technocrats, and its approval follows more than three months of negotiations with coalition partners after their narrow victory in August parliamentary elections.Lawmakers in the 81-seat parliament voted 41-28 Friday for the new government, with 12 abstentions.Krivokapic is a 62-year-old former university professor and political novice. His coalition was formed with the main goal of unseating the long-ruling DPS party of Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic, whom it accuses of rampant corruption, links with organized crime, and “dictatorship.”Djukanovic and his government defied neighbouring Serbia and its ally Russia to join NATO in 2017, and have brought the country of some 620,000 people to the threshold of the European Union.Krivokapic has promised to abide by NATO membership obligations and to work on speeding up EU accession, despite demands from his own coalition for closer ties with Slavic allies Serbia and Russia.The new prime minister has said his cabinet’s priorities will be to fight the coronavirus, bring the country out of a deep economic crisis triggered by the pandemic, and ensure what he called the “real rule of law.”He also pledged good relations with Serbia and other neighbours, and promised to work on creating conditions for holding what he called the “first fair democratic elections” in Montenegro.Krivokapic is considered close to the Serbian Orthodox Church which led months of protests in Montenegro against a law passed by the previous government that the church said would impound its property in Montenegro. The former government rejected those claims.Although they pledged to vote for the new government, the coalition officials criticized Krivokapic’s choice of government ministers and his position that Montenegro should continue on its pro-Western course. They said politicians, instead of technocrats, should lead the new government.“If everything will remain the same, we shouldn’t have taken part in the election,” said Milan Knezevic, a leader of the largest pro-Serb group in the new governing coalition.Serbia and Montenegro were part of the same country before an independence referendum in 2006 led to Montenegro splitting away.Montenegro remains deeply divided among those seeking closer ties with Serbia and Russia and those who view Montenegro as an independent state allied with the West. Serbs represent about 30% of its population.Predrag Milic, The Associated Press 21 hours ago Ad•Amazon India Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdAmazon Wardrobe Refresh Sale Stay #HarPalFashionable with up to 70% off on all your favorite brands. Are you ready? The Canadian Press Erdogan says he hopes France gets rid of President Macron ISTANBUL — Turkey’s president has renewed his vitriolic attacks on French President Emmanuel Macron, saying he hopes France will get rid of him soon.Speaking after Friday prayers in Istanbul, Recep Tayyip Erdogan called Macron “trouble” for France, which he said was experiencing a dangerous time under his leadership.“My wish is for France to get rid of the Macron trouble as soon as possible,” Erdogan said. Otherwise, Erdogan claimed, France would not be able to overcome the Yellow Vest protest movement against social injustice in the country.Erdogan also said France has lost its credibility as an intermediary of the Minsk group, which was created in the 1990s to encourage peaceful resolution for the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh. France has sided with Armenia in that conflict, and Turkey with Azerbaijan.Erdogan’s comments come amid harsh rhetoric from both leaders.Macron tried to avoid further escalation Friday, calling for “respect” after Erdogan's attack, and deflecting a question on the spat. The French leader also told Brut, a news website, that Erdogan was in the process of limiting the liberty of the Turkish people.Relations have been tense over a host of issues, including what Erdogan characterizes as French Islamopohobia, energy disputes in the Eastern Mediterranean and Libya.In October, Erdogan said Macron needed his head examined for defending caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad.At the time, French authorities denounced Turkish “propaganda” against France and Paris recalled its ambassador to Turkey for consultations.The French presidency responded to Erdogan's comments in October with unusually strong language, saying: “Excess and rudeness are not a method” and “we are not accepting insults," and called for changes in Erdogan's “dangerous” policy.The Associated Press 21 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Lac La Ronge Tri-community leaders excited to get to work With the election of Colin Ratushniak and Julie Baschuk, and the re-election of Chief Tammy Cook-Searson, the leaders of the Lac La Ronge Tri-Community are excited to start working together to improve the Lac La Ronge area. This has included some quick work by the leaders and their administration to push for a mandatory masking policy in the tri-community area that matched provincial regulations. When the provincial government brought in a mandatory masking policy for all Saskatchewan communities over 5,000 people, the communities of La Ronge and Air Ronge and the Lac La Ronge Indian Band did not individually fit that bill. Mandatory masking mandates were slowly increasing as the number of new cases in the province started to grow and policies in Saskatchewan’s major cities were announced on Nov. 3. By Nov. 13, all communities over 5,000 were required to have mask requirements for public spaces. Together, the Lac La Ronge Tri-Communities did have the necessary 5,000 person population for the government to include them in the masking policy and a letter to the province was quickly drafted and signed by all three leaders that same day. Thanks to the Village of Air Ronge staff the letter was drafted and signed as quickly as possible with the letter even being taken to leaders’ homes at 10 p.m. on Friday, Dec. 13, Ratushniak said. Even though the province has since expanded its mandatory masking policy to include the entire province, this letter is still a sign of something bigger, said Ratushniak, La Ronge’s newly elected mayor. “It shows our willingness to work together to work for better things in the communities and safety in general. Masking is just one part of the equation, I think that there's much more that needs to be done.” Baschuk unseated long-serving former Air Ronge mayor Gordon Stomp, who had an uninterrupted reign since 1977 when the village was incorporated. While people respected the work that Stomp has done, the voting results showed that they are excited for the potential that Baschuk brings to the table, she said. A diverse and inclusive council was something that she wanted coming into the mayor's chair, Baschuk said, as well as a more modernized way of communicating and being transparent with residents of Air Ronge. Seeing how women are underrepresented in government and business, seeing the mixed council at the table is great to see, she said. “It's nice to see the community be able to stand with me and support me along in this. And we saw two other women elected to our councils. We now have two women and two men [and] we've got a lot more equality happening, which is fabulous.” Cook-Searson has worked with four different mayors from La Ronge and Air Ronge during her time as chief of the Lac La Ronge Indian Band and was re-elected for her sixth term in May. When she was first elected in 2005, she was the youngest among the three leaders. Now she finds she is the oldest, she laughed. With Ratushniak and Baschuk new to the mayoral roles, Cook-Searson is excited to continue the various partnerships among the three communities, including their shared sewer, water, and fire services. Now, she said, the relationship is even more open between the three with Cook-Searson saying she can text the other two and have discussions whenever something comes up. With a diverse leadership team, Baschuk said they are going to bring fresh perspectives to the table with a community that has room to grow. “Right off the hop we're willing to work together in a co-operative way, so we know that and improve the quality of life within each of our communities.” While Baschuk knows that they are not the only ones in the province working together as municipal partners, she hopes that the tri-community can be role models to other communities who want to join together to solve local issues.Becky Zimmer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative 'We need a place to rent': Elgin family calls for help after home destroyed by fire A family is left homeless after a fire engulfed their mobile home on 15 Wilson Avenue in Elgin on Dec. 1. Wanda MacDonald, her partner, three children and a son-in-law, escaped unharmed. They managed to save their six dogs and a cat, although one cat is still missing. “I was in the house, on Facebook at the time, when Jason (her son) yelled that the bike was on fire, (although) they’re not sure if that’s what caused it,” MacDonald said. The fire is still under investigation. The family has no home insurance to cover their losses. MacDonald and her family went into the house a few times to save their pets, even though the house was on fire. “A lot of people say animals are just animals, but they’re not. They’re family members,” she explained. She said her most immediate need is a three or four-bedroom place to rent. “That’s all I’m looking for--just enough space for my family. We’ve been calling around, but most places are rented,” MacDonald added. She said her family has been getting huge donations from people in the community, but her father’s home, located right beside hers, can’t store the couches, beds and other items they’ve received. “Our family is so grateful. I just want to say thank you to the community for helping out.” Country Squire in Gananoque had been letting them stay at the hotel, but “our last stay is tonight, we have to be out of there tomorrow,” she said. Her son Adam, 21, and her daughter both purchased brand new acoustic guitars for Christmas, but both guitars were burned in the fire. “That’s all they wanted for Christmas,” MacDonald said. MacDonald can be reached at 613-532-4827. A GoFundMe page has been set up to help the family. Yona Harvey, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Smiths Falls Record News a day ago Ad•Shaadi.com Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdLooking for a Life Partner in Ahmedabad? Over 6 million others have found love and happiness on Shaadi.com. You can too! What are you waiting for? Sign up today euronews Videos Russia set to launch first doses of its Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine With trials still underway, the vaccine is currently only being offered to those under 60 and without any chronic diseases. View on euronews a day ago Local Journalism Initiative First Nations group calls for resignation of Saskatchewan’s minister of corrections The Congress of Aboriginals Peoples (CAP) is calling on the resignation of Saskatchewan’s Minister of Corrections, Policing and Public Safety Christine Tell. More than 100 inmates at Saskatoon Correctional Centre have tested positive for COVID-19. “Minister Tell has fumbled the ball in her role as minster responsible to Saskatchewan correctional facilities,” said National Vice-Chief Kim Beaudin Dec. 3. “This requires leadership with a level of foresight and compassion that is lacking in her public response to COVID-19.” The CAP is also calling on the federal government to intervene in Saskatchewan’s provincial jail system. They want all non-violent inmates to be released immediately. They also want testing of all inmates and staff and measures to ensure infected inmates are given separate living quarters from other inmates. "Our people are now facing a death sentence in Saskatoon Correctional Centre due to Covid-19,” said Beaudin. "These are lives being intentionally put at risk, and is nothing short of a genocidal, colonialist policy.” Saskatchewan’s Minister of Corrections, Policing and Public Safety department was contacted for comment on the situation at the Saskatoon Correctional Centre but have not responded. Earlier this week protesters – concerned for their loved ones inside - picketed in front of the Saskatoon Correctional Centre. A group of Saskatchewan lawyers sent a letter Tuesday to Tell calling for the release of non-violent, low-risk inmates who are elderly and have compromised immune systems. CUPE 1949, the union that represents 130 lawyers and legal staff at Legal Aid Saskatchewan, says the outbreak at Saskatoon Correctional Centre shows the volatility of the situation. “Our jails are overcrowded with vulnerable people who have virtually no means of protecting themselves,” said Julia Quigley, President of CUPE 1949. “Once the virus gets in, our clients are at an incredible risk.” Quigley said the majority of inmates in Saskatchewan are on remand, meaning they haven’t been convicted of any crime. “In essence, these inmates have a bull’s eye on their backs, and yet they are legally innocent,” said Quigley. She said that Saskatchewan remands people at twice the national average and the majority of inmates in Saskatchewan prisons are Indigenous and medically vulnerable to COVID-19. “This virus doesn’t discriminate, but the criminal justice system does. Our Indigenous clients will bear the brunt of the Saskatoon outbreak, and any other outbreaks if we don’t contain it.” “We cleared the jails effectively in the first wave, without any discernible risk to the public. We need to do it again, now,” added Quigley. Noel Busse, director of communications for Saskatchewan Ministry of Justice/Corrections and Policing, however, told the News-Optimist in July that no prisoners were released early from Saskatchewan jails during the COVID-19 pandemic. “No sentenced offenders have been released early as a result of COVID-19,” Busse said about the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic that hit the province. In March, the Saskatchewan Ministry of Corrections and Policing put in measures to decrease the risk of COVID-19 spread. They used existing infrastructure and program space in correctional facilities to create additional separation between offenders and staff. They also restricted the movement and placement of offenders within a facility, and provided personal protective equipment to corrections staff and offenders. COVID-19 also prompted the province’s Crown prosecutors to rethink remanding some defendants who were charged but not yet convicted. Some non-violent inmates held on remand in Saskatchewan’s jails were released while waiting for trial. Saskatoon Correctional Centre is a provincial jail run by the province of Saskatchewan. As of Dec. 4 there are no COVID-19 positive cases in the federal penitentiaries in the province, such as the Saskatchewan Penitentiary in Prince Albert, the Regional Psychiatric Centre in Saskatoon, Okimaw Ohci Healing Lodge, and Willow Cree Healing Lodge. Lisa Joy, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Man makes most of horrific accident Dale Woodard Lethbridge Herald John Wayne Yakimyshyn has spent his entire life around horses. But a mishap with one set the longtime Hollywood horse trainer on a different career path and one that he hopes will assist people as well. After a horrific accident with a horse a little over three years ago that nearly left him paralyzed, Yakimyshyn has gone from trainer to businessman, designing the Giddyupz, an attachment that goes on the grab handle in trucks, jeeps, semis, and other off-road vehicles to help assist people in and out of the vehicle. “You can put this on the back of a seat rail for the backseat passenger so they can hold on,” said Yakimyshyn. Now back in Lethbridge for the past two months, Yakimyshyn is unveiling his patented item. “I picked Lethbridge not only because I lived here 20 years ago, but it’s kind of cowboy country,” said Yakimyshyn. “I thought with my background, the horses and the word Giddyupz, it’s also a good retirement community, so I figured a lot of people would need this.” Yakimyshyn’s path to horse training started as a youngster on a road trip from his hometown of Vegreville to Calgary. “In 1963 Roy Rogers and Dale Evans were in Calgary at the Stampede as the marshals,” said Yakimyshyn. “I remember sitting on the side of the road watching Roy Rogers and my parents explained to me who Roy Rogers was. I told them at that time, at five years old, ‘I can do that,’ when they explained what Trigger (Roger’s Palomino horse) did.” Growing up in Vegreville, horses were always a part of Yakimyshyn’s upbringing. “We had a machinery dealership and a Dodge dealership and my parents always had a couple of farms,” he said. “We worked on the farms and every weekend my brothers and I would pretend we were playing “Bonanza.” We had all the little horses and we would ride together in the fields and that’s how it started.” In the early-1970s, Yakimyshyn started training horses on his own. The paid off in 1984 when he headed to California to work with noted trainer Glen Randall. “One day I found an article with Glen Randall,” said Yakimyshyn. “I called him from home in Vegreville and he said ‘You know what, son? You bring me $6,000 cash and come and train with me.’ That was a lot of money back then. He didn’t know me from nothing, just some guy calling him on the phone. So I loaded up two horses, took $6,000 in cash and I went all the way down to Hollywood and I started working with him.” Arriving in his big Dodge van that he slept in, Yakimyshyn started work the moment he drove into the yard. “We were training Andalusian horses for some San Diego bullfights,” he said. “This was for movies, so nobody was getting hurt. But we had to teach the horses to pretend they’re going into a bullfight and dance sideways. It’s all trick stuff, nobody got hurt. I was the only one who got hurt in 60-something years.” Yakimyshyn and Randall also worked with Black Stallion horses from Francis Ford Coppola movies. “I knew a lot because I was self-taught, but I learned a lot from him.” Yakimyshyn also worked with actor David Hasselhoff on an episode of “Knight Rider” in 1985. “I worked on the set and it was called ‘Knight By A Nose,’” said Yakimyshyn. “You’ll see a few black horses running around and I was dressed up as an Arab sheik. The horse was supposed to fight me and fight him and run away. But we had two horses on the set. So one was like a pussycat and the other was a fighting horse. So you had to teach them to pretend to fight.” Yakimyshyn continued to work off and on as a Hollywood trainer. “Anytime they needed you, you went there. There was some stuff shot in Vancouver and a little bit was done in Alberta,” he said. Then came the accident on Oct. 12, 2017 that put Yakimyshyn on a different career path. “I’ll never forget it, 11 in the morning,” he said. “They brought a new horse onto the set. I had been training and getting horses ready for the new season for the week and all the horses were fine. I was teaching them to drop their heads and smile and do all kinds of cute things.” A new Palomino was brought onto the set. “They said they were using him,” said Yakimyshyn. “I asked if he was broke for cameras and (was told) ‘No problem, he’s broken.’ So I get on him and we used him on film for four hours.” Afterwards there was a break in the filming and Yakimyshyn went to feed the Palomino some grain. “As I’m walking back, I’m probably three feet away from the movie star,” he said. “We’re talking and I have a loose rein. I was in an RCMP saddle from the early 1900s, which means the horn is very high and the back is very high and it’s all made of steel. So when you sit in the saddle it grips your legs so they could fight with a sword or knife and not fall out of the saddle.” Suddenly, the horse started bucking. “I don’t what happened to the horse,” said Yakimyshyn. “He went nuts immediately, starting bucking, broke my front pelvis completely off, broke my back pelvis off my backbone, flipped over, cut me in half and knocked me out on the ground. I was knocked out while I was on the back of the horse. “So I woke up screaming, not crying, screaming. I had no idea where the horse was. I was told he was fine. He just went crazy for some reason.” An ambulance arrived on the scene inside of a half hour. “I lost half my blood and I couldn’t see my legs,” said Yakimyshyn. “I asked ‘Where are my legs?’ and they said they were pulled out of the sockets. Within a half inch I would have been paralyzed.” Yakimyshyn’s spine was crushed in the accident. “I have eight, six-inch bolts holding me together,” he said. Yakimyshyn spent time in a trauma centre and briefly in a senior’s home before taking up residence in a hotel room in Chilliwack. “I laid in bed, rolled into the washroom, walked by cane and wheelchair and it took me one year to walk again,” said Yakimyshyn, who still walks with a cane when he needs it. He also deals with nerve damage and arthritis. As he got his mobility back, the first prototypes of the Giddyupz starting taking shape. “How this happened with Giddyupz is a friend of mine had a brand new Ford pickup truck and he wanted to take me out for groceries when I was in a wheelchair,” said Yakimyshyn. “So I rolled up and I couldn’t reach the grab handle. He couldn’t help me because if you’re standing in the crease of a door you can’t lift somebody up with my weight – I’m 200 pounds — and safely put me in. So I said ‘I have to figure this out.’” And so, the first grab handles started taking shape. “I came up with the grab handle extender,” said Yakimyshyn. “It’s made of leather. But the nice thing is we graduated to synthetic with our name stamped in that can hold over 1,500 pounds. The leather one will hold hundreds of pounds, the synthetic one will hold 1,500 pounds without breaking.” To demonstrate strength of the Giddyupz, Yakimyshyn showed a photo of the grab handle extender lifting the front end of a 1,500-pound tractor. “It’s just a couple of bolts and some screws. This material is so strong we’re using it for different applications,” said Yakimyshyn, who has also invented the lasso and the stirrup to help the elderly get out of their chair or lift their legs up in cars. “It took me three years and over 7,000 hours and over $70,000 invested,” said Yakimyshyn. Given its name, the Giddyupz will follow a familiar theme. “It’s going to be all cowboy related,” said Yakimyshyn, who is two months into his business venture and was set up at the Christmas Market last weekend. “We’ve only been selling out of the factory so far to people I have contacted.” Some big names south of the border already own the Giddyupz. “Jay Leno called me on March 7 at 10 a.m. and he invited me to his place in Hollywood. I sent him four Giddyupz and he absolutely loves them,” said Yakimyshyn, adding Bob Lutz, former president of Chrysler and General Motors, Warren Buffett and even Donald Trump have used the Giddyupz. “So a lot of important people in the States already have this product.” A Giddyupz grab handle goes for $35. “It’s made in Alberta by an Albertan and it’s patented and trademarked,” said Yakimyshyn. For more information on The Giddyupz Corporation, visit their Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/GiddyupzCorporation2020 Follow @DWoodardHerald on TwitterDale Woodard, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Lethbridge Herald 21 hours ago More Stories