Doctor pictured in viral photo hugging elderly Covid patient speaks out: ‘I was feeling sad just like him’ HOME MAIL NEWS SPORTS FINANCE CELEBRITY STYLE MOVIES WEATHER ANSWERS MOBILE Yahoo News Search query Sign in Mail Sign in to view your mail News News Coronavirus Coronavirus Originals Originals Canada Canada World World Business Business Entertainment Entertainment Sports Sports Science & Tech Science & Tech Weather Weather More More The Independent Doctor pictured in viral photo hugging elderly Covid patient speaks out: ‘I was feeling sad just like him’ Read full article Namita Singh December 1, 2020, 9:47 p.m.·2 min read Dr Joseph Varon hugs and comforts a patient in the COVID-19 intensive care unit (ICU) during Thanksgiving at the United Memorial Medical Center (Getty Images) A doctor who was photographed comforting a distraught elderly coronavirus patient on Thanksgiving day has opened up about the moment the now-viral image was captured. Dr Joseph Varon, chief of staff at the United Memorial Medical Centre in Houston, Texas, said he did not realise the photograph was being taken and was “feeling sad” just like the patient at the time. Having media in the hospital is not unusual and important for transparency, he told CNN in an interview on Monday. Recalling what happened when the picture was taken, he said: “I have a photographer following me and as I'm going inside my covid unit, I see this elderly patient is out of his bed and trying to get out of the room, and he's crying. “So I get close to him and I tell him, ‘Why are you crying?’ and the man says, ‘I want to be with my wife.’ So, you know, I just grab him… I hold him. I did not know that I was being photographed at the time.” The tender moment between the doctor and the unidentified patient was captured by Getty’s photographer, Go Nakamura. The patient eventually felt better and stopped crying, said the doctor. Updating the viewers about the status of the elderly man in the picture, he said the patient still cannot see his wife until his swabs are negative. “It’s very difficult,” Dr Varon said. “You can imagine, you are inside a room where people coming in space suits and you have no communication with anybody else, other by phone, if you’re lucky. “When you are an elderly individual, it’s even more difficult because you feel that you are alone. You feel isolated.” He said that they are hopeful that the patient will be discharged before the end of the week. Describing what he was thinking at the time the image was taken, he said: “I was feeling sad just like him. And I was just recollecting all the patients that I’ve had to do similar things with.” Dr Varon told CNN he had been working consecutively for the past 256 days, and said he gets frustrated when he sees people “doing the wrong thing” when it comes to preventing the virus’s spread. Story continues “People are out there in bars, restaurants, malls. I mean it’s crazy. It’s like we work work work work work and people don’t listen and then they end up in my ICU (sic).” The doctor urged people to maintain social distancing, wear masks, wash hands and avoid crowded places. “If people can do that, health care workers like me will be able to hopefully rest.” According to the New York Times, the US has so far recorded over 13.6 million cases with over 268,023 deaths, while 1,265 new coronavirus deaths were reported on 30 November and about 167,756 new cases. Read More China gives Kim Jong-un and family experimental Covid vaccine’ Fauci asks US to be 'part of the solution' and receive Covid vaccine Pfizer request emergency use for Covid vaccine from European regulator Hamilton tests positive for COVID-19, will miss Sakhir F1 GP TRENDING 1. The water has been bridged: COVID-19 cases on the rise on Vancouver Island 2. A look at what provinces and territories have said about COVID-19 vaccine plans 3. Qatar rules out normalization of Israel ties for now 4. N.W.T. temperatures soar above zero, breaking a record and causing some problems 5. 'Seeds of division:' Indigenous leaders criticize Brian Pallister's vaccine comments Latest Stories Reuters Family bid adieu to former French leader Giscard in intimate ceremony Giscard's coffin was carried to the church in Authon, central France, by four pall bearers, draped in the flags of France and the European Union. Giscard died on Wednesday after contracting COVID-19. COVID restrictions in France limit the number of people attending a funeral to 30. 21 hours ago CBC Highway 174 bridges dismantled this weekend for Stage 2 LRT Ottawa's light rail contractors will demolish two Highway 174 bridges this weekend so they can build Montreal station in the highway's median and start laying tracks out to Orléans.That will mean traffic will not be able to travel on Montreal Road under Highway 174 from 8 p.m. Friday to 7 a.m. on Monday, and detours will be in place. A shuttle will be available every five minutes for pedestrians.Highway 174's eastbound on-ramp from northbound Jeanne d'Arc Boulevard will close overnight Saturday, while the westbound on-ramp from southbound Champlain Street will close overnight Tuesday, Dec. 8.The big, year-end goal for the east-end LRT work has been to dismantle these bridges.Over the coming days, the decks will be chipped away, the girders and beams of the old bridge taken down, and the piers removed. In all, 1,456 cubic metres of concrete and 160 metric tonnes of steel will be taken down.Station construction to begin next yearMotorists will have noticed how crews with Kiewit and Vinci Group have been busy this year near that Montreal Road interchange. They've widened the highway, built seven new ramps, and moved traffic onto two new, outer bridges.In future, a "flyover" bridge will take trains from Blair station into the highway's median and out to Trim station. Construction of those tracks and Montreal station itself will begin next year, the mayor said."So we're going at a really fast clip folks, to make sure that these projects are ready," said Jim Watson at a rainy news event Friday afternoon.The $4.66 billion Stage 2 of light rail is set to open in stages. This five-station, 12-kilometre eastern extension of the electric Confederation Line, from Blair station to Trim, is scheduled to be finished by 2024.The western extension from Tunney's to Moodie, with its 11 stations, is set to open last in 2025. Kiewit and Vinci Group have been relocating sewers, culverts and other utilities, preparing for the cut-and-cover tunnel along Byron Avenue and a second tunnel under Connaught Avenue.The southern, diesel Trillium Line extension to Riverside South and the Ottawa International Airport is being built by SNC-Lavalin and is scheduled to open first, in 2022. 23 hours ago Ad•Hear.com Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdCost of these hearing aids might surprise you These hearing aids are getting smarter with bluetooth connectivity. CBC As U.S. hospitals fill up, doctor hopes viral photo will serve as a warning For Dr. Joseph Varon it was a chance to offer a moment of comfort amidst so much uncertainty, a moment that he didn't realize would touch so many lives beyond the elderly patient in front of him. The chief of staff at Houston's United Memorial Medical Center was going through the COVID-19 unit when he came upon an elderly man alone in his room overcome with grief. "He was crying, crying like a baby," Varon said. "He tells me, 'I want to be with my wife.' And, man, when he said: 'I want to be with my wife,' I just embrace him. I just hug him, and eventually he stopped crying."Varon didn't realize at the time that the photo was being taken. He often allows the media access to his health-care facility and that day he was being shadowed by Getty Images photographer Go Nakamura. The image, posted to Facebook, spread quickly across social networks. It captures the anguish felt by many of the thousands of people in COVID-19 units, where patients aren't allowed to have visitors, and health-care workers must don the protective gear that Varon calls a "space suit."A dire situationIt's a scene playing out across the United States with increasing frequency, as hospitals fill up in record numbers with COVID-19 patients. There were 101,276 patients in U.S. hospitals with COVID-19 as of Friday, the most recent date for which the data was available, and the highest number since the pandemic began, according to the COVID Tracking Project. About 14.3 million people have been diagnosed with coronavirus in the U.S., according to statistics kept by Johns Hopkins University. And with more than 279,000 dead, the U.S. now has 102,000 more deaths due to the coronavirus than Brazil, which has the second-highest number of deaths and about 6.5 million cases.And the situation in the U.S. is expected to get worse. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation estimates that if the country remains on its current trajectory there will be 345,435 deaths by Dec. 31.The latest numbers follow a staggering November in which the U.S. set a new record of more than four million cases in the month. That's more than double the previous record set in October, with the impact being felt in health-care systems across the country. Bill Hanage, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, isn't surprised.WATCH | Answering a call for help:"The hospitalizations reflect the fact that we are entering the first full winter season of the pandemic in the northern hemisphere, and there have not been huge efforts to prevent transmission in much of the United States," Hanage said.A difficult road aheadThe grim statistics come at a time of heightened optimism that the end of the pandemic is near, with the potential arrival of vaccines in the coming weeks. But that optimism is being tempered by a stinging dose of reality from the head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control."December and January and February are gonna be rough times. I actually believe they're gonna be the most difficult time in the public health history of this nation," CDC director Robert Redfield said Wednesday.Speaking at an event hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, he said one of the most concerning things about the current situation is that 90 per cent of U.S. hospitals are "red zones," or areas of high infection, so there's a high risk of going over capacity."We are at a very critical time right now about being able to maintain the resilience of our health-care system," Redfield said.He pointed out that in the spring, the hotspots were limited to a handful of cities, and health-care resources could be shifted from other areas, something that can't happen now with the pandemic covering the entire country.A patchwork approachHowever, Hanage says that parts of the country are experiencing the pandemic differently, largely due to a patchwork of precautions.So New York City, where masks are required in most settings where physical distancing isn't possible, isn't seeing hospitalizations reach a point as bad as in the spring. While in North and South Dakota, which have resisted making masks mandatory, the incident rate is among the highest in the world.In Rhode Island, the state has opened two field hospitals to help the system as it nears capacity, with the Governor Gina Marie Raimondo calling on anyone with experience in healthcare to help deal with staffing shortages.WATCH | The risk of no more hospital bedsIn California, Governor Gavin Newsom announced new stay-at-home orders will be triggered in certain regions across the state if intensive care unit capacity drops below 15 per cent. In Ohio, a grim bellwether of difficult days ahead came with the arrival of refrigeration trucks outside some health-care facilities as morgues fill up."When you see refrigerator trucks, that's a pretty good kick in the teeth for us to understand that this is the reality. This is what we're facing," Ohio Governor Mike De Wine said during a coronavirus briefing Thursday.The holiday impactThe message from public health authorities and front-line workers across the country is to follow basic steps to prevent the virus, from mask wearing, to physical distancing, to remaining home as much as possible. Meanwhile, the effects of a busy Thanksgiving holiday travel season are just starting to ripple through the system and there are fears that more travel and large gatherings over Christmastime could lead to more infections.Hanage says the Christmas holidays are particularly worrisome because it's possible that older people, who are more vulnerable than other age groups, will be at large gatherings. He also worries that the country will suffer because of the places taking the fewest precautions. "We're only as strong as the weakest link, and unfortunately, there are a lot of places in the United States which have been pretty weak."A stern messageAt United Memorial, Varon says his small community hospital is essentially being overtaken by COVID-19 patients. Out of 120 beds, he said 88 were for COVID patients, and that number is rising every day.Varon echoed Redfield's comments about what's to come, but took a more blunt tone when asked how he feels about people travelling and gathering in large numbers over the holidays."I would like to slap them," Varon said. "Because of people like them, the next six weeks are going to be the darkest weeks in modern American medical history. Simple as that." He blames COVID fatigue for causing people to drop their guard, and while he understands the feeling, he says people need to understand why health-care workers are speaking out."We health-care providers are also humans, we also feel your pain and I like to tell people: 'Look at the picture, because I do not want you to be on the next picture.'" 23 hours ago The Canadian Press At least 18 Chinese coal miners killed by lethal gas BEIJING — China's state TV says at least 18 coal miners have been killed by high levels of carbon monoxide in the country's southwest.One miner was found alive following the disaster Friday in the Diaoshidong mine in Chongqing, the report said. Rescuers are looking for five others.China’s coal mining industry used to be the world’s deadliest, suffering more than 5,000 fatalities a year. Safety improved dramatically after authorities overhauled the industry starting about 15 years ago.The Associated Press 22 hours ago CBC A tourism industry in 'survival mode' looks ahead to an uncertain recovery There isn't a hint of overstatement when Mark McCarthy calls 2020 a lost year for the Canadian tourism industry."Everyone is on survival mode," said McCarthy, whose family-owned tourism company in St. John's did a fraction of its usual business this past summer after premiers in the Atlantic provinces created a regional bubble that excluded visitors from the rest of the country.McCarthy and Joe Urie, co-owner of the Jasper Tour Company in Alberta, spoke to CBC's The House about the common challenges their industry faces because of the COVID-19 pandemic, and whether the aid package included in this week's fiscal update provides enough of a booster shot to inoculate them against another round of economic lockdowns.Tourism employs 750,000 people in Canada, accounts for 2 per cent of GDP and supports many rural and Indigenous communities.Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland acknowledged the sector took a particularly heavy blow from the prolonged economic lockdown, from politicians at all levels urging people to stay home and from travel restrictions that remain in place in many parts of the country."We know that businesses in tourism, hospitality, travel, arts and culture have been particularly hard-hit. So we are creating a new stream of support for those businesses that need it most … that have lost revenue as people stay home to fight the spread of the virus," Freeland said in French while presenting Monday's economic update.WATCH: Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland delivers fiscal updateThe government created a program offering guaranteed loans and reduced interest rates to the tourism sector and other hard-hit industries. It also moved this week to earmark 25 per cent of its Regional Relief and Recovery Fund for local tourism businesses. That works out to more than $500 million through June.McCarthy and Urie have never met, but they face the same daunting challenges in keeping their businesses afloat and their people employed.McCarthy's company typically runs 50 escorted tours around Newfoundland and Labrador during the peak season from May to October. Its customers are mostly Canadian, its tours employ local guides and its spinoff business helps to support local restaurants, shops and car rental firms."However, after March, when everything closed down, basically we had no season at all," McCarthy said. "We ended up with less than one per cent of revenue for the year."Urie takes groups of up to 14 people on tours in and around Jasper National Park that focus on Indigenous history and culture. Unlike McCarthy, he relies heavily on international travellers."And of course, with the borders closed, that pretty much zeroed us out," Urie told The House. "And, like Newfoundland being closed, the Canadian federal government closed the national parks and the national historic sites across the country. So we didn't even have — for almost a three-month period of time — Albertans coming into the park."The near-collapse of tourism made it impossible for many companies to keep all of their employees on the payroll. With no tourists, with no money coming in, federal programs like the wage subsidy were of limited use to these firms.Do more, industry tells OttawaThe Tourism Industry Association of Canada said it's encouraged by the support targeting the industry in this week's fiscal update, but warned that more needs to be done if these companies are to survive."Tourism businesses have been facing months of reduced or no revenue — and without certainty of support, including timing, they cannot plan for their financial future," said the association's acting CEO Vince Accardi in a statement. "We look forward to continued work with the government to ensure these supports get to those who have been hardest hit, on the right terms and as soon as possible."Urie said Indigenous companies face additional burdens."A lot of Indigenous tourism businesses have a really hard time applying for these programs. There's a lot of financial institutions that won't touch you if your business is on a reserve," he said. "You know, it's really, really difficult."No recovery until 2022, says UrieUrie estimates it will take until at least 2022 — perhaps longer — for tourism to rebound, despite reports that vaccines will be available in Canada in the coming months. He said that's made him reluctant to apply for the federal business loans.McCarthy has similar concerns about the plight of his partners in small communities around Newfoundland and Labrador who might be attracted by the Canada Emergency Business Account (CEBA), which provides interest-free loans of up to $60,000. A third of a CEBA loan will be forgiven if the balance is paid off by the end of 2022."And unless we can get opened up in 2021, I think that the payback period could be difficult for a lot of these operators," he said. "So I think it's a real concern for people who are just availing of the loans ... because they're in survival mode."As their interview with The House ended, Urie and McCarthy exchanged information. "I just went on your site and had a look, Joe. It's great!" McCarthy said as he and Urie briefly chatted about the value of private tours and engaging more with local guides."We're on the same page," Urie replied.On the same page — and in the same boat, as they look ahead to an uncertain future for Canada's tourism industry. 23 hours ago Ad•Raging Bull Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdHow He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home Kyle Dennis took a leap of faith and decided to invest his savings of $15K in the stock market — $2.8M later, he owes his success to these strategies CBC Canada to ease immigration rules for Hong Kongers. The move couldn't come fast enough for these B.C. students Hong Kong natives Tim Chan and Maggie Tong have enjoyed the time they've spent studying and living in British Columbia — but, until recently, they had never thought of settling in Canada after graduation.Chan, now in his final year of a sociology major at the University of Victoria, had originally planned to start his career in Hong Kong, where Tong has already returned to finish a degree in social work after six months as an exchange student in B.C.But the Chinese government's ongoing crackdown on the semi-autonomous region's civil liberties since June 2019 has completely changed their plans. The pair, who have been dating for two years, now feel their home city has no future for them."It is so hard [for me] to watch Hong Kong die," said 23-year-old Chan, referring to the growing increase in suppression of dissent there."Now I'm quite sure I'll leave," said Tong, 21, speaking in Cantonese.Chan and Tong, along with other final-year students and recent graduates from Hong Kong, are hopeful they can settle permanently in Canada after Ottawa announced new immigration measures on Nov. 12 that will make it easier and quicker for them to settle here.Canada is seeing a surge in interest from potential immigrants from the region through the number of study permit applications and skilled worker applications as political unrest in Hong Kong continues. Many young residents are at odds with their government over the erosion of freedoms that were guaranteed after the region returned to Chinese rule in 1997, and a high-profile activist was this week sentenced to 13 months in prison for his role in pro-democracy protests last year.WATCH | Pro-democracy protester jailed in Hong Kong:Exact details of the new immigration pathways, which will be launched in the new year, have yet to be announced.But in an email to CBC News, Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) said under its new measures, Hong Kong citizens who have graduated from a Canadian post-secondary institution will be able to apply for permanent residency without any work experience. A three-year work permit program will also be available for Hong Kong graduates of both Canadian and non-Canadian institutions over the past five years. Under existing immigration rules, Chan and Tong would have to apply for permanent residency via the federal skilled worker program or provincial nominee program — a process that could potentially take years because they do not have work experience.As well, coming to Canada as a skilled worker or investor has become increasingly competitive. Such applications more than doubled between 2015 and 2019, from 407 to 948, according to IRCC.Meanwhile, Canada has seen a surge in study permit applications from Hong Kong. IRCC figures show 1,991 such applications were received from the region as of Sept. 30 — higher than any number for a full year since at least 2015.Fears of crossing China's 'red line'Chan says he has good reason to stay in Canada. He did his internship in Hong Kong last year with a pro-democracy politician and fears this experience may stall his career should he choose to develop it at home. Since China's top legislature implemented a national security law in July, numerous pro-democracy lawmakers, activists and protesters in Hong Kong have been arrested."You never know what time that [internship experience] will be my black mark in my life," Chan said."In Canada, I don't worry about it [political censorship], because Canada is [an] open society."Canada supports the right to peaceful protest, and those people who are arrested for actions that are not considered criminal in Canada will not be denied entry to this country, IRCC says in its Nov. 12 statement on new immigration pathways for Hong Kong youth.Like Chan, Tong worries that if she becomes a registered social worker in Hong Kong, she may lose her professional qualification if she counsels youngsters who participate in civil disobedience movements.Her concern stems from an incident in October, when the Hong Kong government stripped a primary school teacher of his licence after he discussed the region's independence in classes.According to the national security law, promoting separatism is criminal."It's getting easier to cross the 'red line,'" Tong said. "I don't feel safe working in Hong Kong."Tong says she and several of her University of Hong Kong classmates are planning to emigrate to Canada via the new three-year work permit program. When the permit expires, these applicants can either extend the permit or apply for permanent residency, IRCC said.Tong has two more options toward becoming a permanent resident: She can have Chan sponsor her as a partner, or apply to study for a postgraduate degree. She's considering a master's degree in social work at the University of British Columbia, which she thinks would help her get a job.While UBC doesn't provide data on graduate program applications, the university's Vancouver and Okanagan campuses have, respectively, seen a 66 per cent and 32 per cent jump from last year in undergraduate applications from Hong Kong students who are neither Canadian citizens nor permanent residents.Michelle Suderman, UBC's director of international student development, says Hong Kong students need not worry too much about not having the minimum English proficiency or grade average to fulfil admission requirements."I certainly would encourage any student who is interested in coming to UBC or another Canadian post-secondary institution to reach out to the schools they're interested in and see what's possible in terms of alternate ways to recognize the work that they've done," she said.Chan is now planning to get a diploma in marketing or computer science to enhance his employability and hopes Tong will soon be able to rejoin him in B.C."Salaries in Canada may not be as high as in Hong Kong, but we will be able to live here with a peace of mind," Chan said. 23 hours ago CBC 'Loophole' in civic election act breeds unfairness and financial secrecy, experts say A section of Ontario's Municipal Elections Act creates an unequal playing field, undermines financial transparency and should be changed, election experts say.Concerns have been raised about a part of the legislation that allows a corporation to pay an employee while volunteering for a political campaign after a Toronto man revealed on Twitter he was paid by a lobbying firm to help campaign for candidates in the 2018 civic election.Kevin Haynes told CBC Toronto he felt like an "election hitman" when he was paid $20 per hour in cash by a major lobbying group to knock on doors for nine candidates, seven of whom won.Under the Municipal Elections Act, corporations and unions aren't allowed to donate or contribute to a candidate's campaign — no matter the amount.But a subsection of the act reads:"The value of services provided voluntarily, under the direction of the person or the individual, corporation or trade union, by an employee whose compensation from all sources for providing the services does not exceed the compensation the employee would normally receive for the period the services are provided."Simply put, an employee of a corporation or union can "volunteer" with a candidate's campaign during work hours and still get paid by their employer, as long as its not extra. That time and money is not considered a contribution, therefore, it doesn't need to be disclosed."It's an unprincipled loophole that should be closed," elections lawyer Stephen Aylward said.'Completely invisible' contributionsAylward says it's very difficult to justify the loophole on any policy grounds and notes there's no limit on the amount of time a volunteer can spend on a campaign."It seems like it's a form of contribution that is completely invisible to the accountability process that is set out under the Municipal Elections Act," he said.Dave Meslin, a municipal election expert who wrote a book on democracy, says Haynes's case is likely just the tip of the iceberg.He says the loophole allows unions and corporations to contribute an "infinite amount of resources" toward an election campaign, with no requirements for transparency or disclosure. "That loophole seems to me to undo all the other protections that we've created to make sure that campaign finance is transparent and accessible," he said. "[It] seems like it allows an endless amount of money to be spent without any recording whatsoever."Unfair election processAylward says ultimately the legislation creates an unfair playing field for candidates, which goes against the whole purpose of election finance laws."This loophole creates a serious weakness in the regulation of municipal campaign finances and to that extent risks giving a significant advantage to candidates with the best connections to large corporations or unions," he said.Meslin says that inequality can then extend to council chambers because it ultimately pits residents advocating for an issue against councillors tied to lobby groups."All those lobbyists are now owed favours," he said. He'd like to see more transparency and public financing of election campaigns so candidates don't have to look for corporate backers."Everyone's trying to influence the process for their own interests," Meslin said. "The people who get left out and unheard are the ordinary citizens." Long-time concernsToronto city council brought forward concerns about the legislation being "exploited" to the mayor's executive committee in 2009. The councillors wanted the province to amend that part of the act so compensation employees receive for volunteer work on municipal election campaigns could be defined as contributions."This is a major issue in Toronto's elections with trade unions paying employees to volunteer on various candidates' campaigns," the motion reads."In the spirit of the electoral reform package adopted by City Council, further investigation of the Municipal Election Act, 1996, has identified a loophole that is currently exploited by trade unions and corporations to influence the outcome of municipal elections." The legislation was never changed. When asked about the act and previous council concerns, the city's chief communications officer Brad Ross said the city is aware of the tweet by Haynes and is reviewing the matter.A spokesperson for the Ontario Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing says the ministry reviews the Municipal Elections Act after each municipal election and the minister would review any feedback from local officials."Our government has not received a request from Toronto city council on this matter," spokesperson Rachel Widakdo said in a statement. 22 hours ago CBC Study looks at link between substance use and psychosis during pandemic It will be years before the long-term effects of COVID-19 are fully understood, but Dr. Jason Morrison already knows one aspect that needs further study.In the months after a state of emergency was declared in Nova Scotia and widespread lockdowns were initiated, the interim chief of psychiatry for Nova Scotia Health's central zone said in-patient doctors started noticing changes in who was coming to hospital.Total admissions to the acute care psychiatric units at the QEII Health Sciences Centre were about the same in the early weeks of the pandemic (March 22 to June 5) as compared to a similar period of time before the state of emergency was called (Jan. 5 to March 21).However, Morrison said doctors found a notable increase in patients between the ages of 35 and 44 presenting with psychosis in those early COVID days. The frequency where substance use was thought to be a contributing factor was also higher than usual.An 'unusual' development"Typically, we see someone with the first episode of psychosis in their teens or their 20s, so to see previously well people with no psychiatric history developing a first psychosis in their 30s and 40s was very unusual," said Morrison.It was that finding and the increased association with drug use — in particular cannabis and cocaine — that caused Morrison's team at the hospital to decide to take a closer look.Dr. Nadine Negati, a second-year psychiatry resident at Dalhousie University, was part of the research team. While the numbers cover all admissions in the Halifax area during the respective time periods, the sample size remains small enough that Negati said additional research and study is required.The findings could suggest people are using substances differently during the pandemic, and further research could look at whether that's a coping mechanism for stress or whether there are vulnerabilities in that demographic that have not been previously recognized, said Negati."Important next steps for us is to conduct further research to gain an understanding of what specific changes were, and also to raise public awareness that ... changing one's substance use in this time when people use that as a coping mechanism to perhaps deal with some of the various stressors, that it can have significant implications for mental illness," said Negati.Findings came as a surpriseMorrison said there is lots of research when it comes to substance-related psychosis in young people who use daily, but the surprise was the findings for patients between 35 and 44 years old."We typically say if you're going to start smoking cannabis a lot, wait until you're after 25 at least, and I think this study kind of made us pause a little bit about that," he said.If people are going to be using cannabis daily, Morrison recommends they consider products with lower THC levels.MORE TOP STORIES 22 hours ago Ad•Wakefit Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdSpecial Price Discounts on Wakefit Mattresses! 30% off on memory foam Wakefit mattresses. Use code 'SALARYDAY' & get special price discounts. 10yr warranty & removable zipper covers for easy wash. euronews Videos Sputnik V: Russia rolls out its COVID-19 vaccination programme Russia has started its COVID-19 vaccination programme, with the first jabs going to workers at high risk of becoming infected with coronavirus.View on euronews 22 hours ago CBC 10 fun things to do on P.E.I. this first weekend of December The Discover Charlottetown Christmas Festival continues in the capital's downtown this weekend and all this week, through to next Sunday.It offers horse and wagon rides ($5) and stilt walkers as well as Whoville-themed decor throughout the downtown, and more. Find the schedule of events here.Here are some more fun events to get you in the holiday mood. Remember to take along your mask and some sanitizer.Drive-by paradeSanta wraps up his drive-by sleighing of Charlottetown neighbourhoods on Saturday and Sunday starting at 5:30 p.m. each evening, along with fire trucks, police vehicles and mascot Charlie Town.Saturday's route will cover Sherwood-Parkdale and parts of the city centre. On Sunday, the convoy heads to the city centre region north of Brighton Road-Euston Street, west of University Avenue, and south of Capital Drive.Check out Santa's route here on the city's website. Pop-up artisan marketThere will be a pop-up market at Founders' Food Hall and Market on the Charlottetown waterfront Saturday and Sunday. Several local artisan and craft vendors will be set up throughout the hall. Admission is free. The hall's 15 full-time food and market vendors will also be open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Friday and Saturday and noon to 5 p.m. Sunday.It's a Wonderful Life Radio PlayACT will present the holiday classic It's a Wonderful Life: A Live Radio Play in Charlottetown and North Rustico in partnership with the Confederation Centre of the Arts.It began Thursday at the centre and continues Saturday with matinee and evening performances. Next weekend it continues Thursday through Saturday at The Watermark theatre in North Rustico.The production is written by Joe Landry and directed by ACT's Marti Hopson.See and hear the story of George Bailey, who learns the value of friendship on Christmas Eve."This adaptation of the classic film is sure to deliver holiday cheer for the whole family," the Confed Centre's website says. Tickets are $18-$25 plus fees and can be ordered on ACT's website, where you can also find more information.Lakeside ChristmasOn Saturday from 3 to 7 p.m., enjoy horse and wagon rides, take a photo with Santa and his sleigh, make your own tree decoration to take home, complete Santa's scavenger hunt and walk through the beautifully lit woods at Ben's Lake Campground at 2741 Murray Harbour Rd., between Belfast and Montague.It's a fundraiser hosted by Aspire P.E.I., a group that promotes positive mental health for Islanders by getting people actively engaged in nature, according to its Facebook page.Admission is by donation, and horse and wagon rides are $5 per person. Even though it's taking place outdoors, organizers ask that everyone wear a mask and physically distance. Jenn Grant virtual Christmas concertWatch Jenn Grant's virtual live-streamed concert Sunday at 8:30 p.m. She'll be launching her new Christmas album, Forever On Christmas Eve.Tickets are $15. Buy them at this Bandcamp link and you'll also be supporting the local Trailside Music Hall, which has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. More info on Trailside's Facebook page.Grant is a P.E.I. native now living in Halifax with her Islander husband, producer-musician Daniel Ledwell. If you want a private concert with your pod of five people at your house, or five different Zoom links, Grant is offering to Zoom in and sing a handful of her favourite carols in a private online show for $500. BIS Tea and Craft FairThe 3rd Annual Christmas Tea and Craft Fair will be held at the Benevolent Irish Society at 582 North River Rd. Sunday from 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. Once again, people will be asked to observe COVID-19 protocols.Tea with homemade biscuits and sweets will be available for sale, and vendors will offer preserves, baking, sewing, knitting, handmade jewelry, Christmas ornaments, leathercraft, used books and more.Admission is $1 at the door.Charlottetown Farmers' Market Artisan MarketThe Charlottetown Farmers' Market will hold its annual Artisan Market at the Charlottetown market building this Sunday and next, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.Along with some of the market regulars offering art, treats and gifts, find some things you won't see anywhere else — like driftwood folk art, jewelry, pottery and handmade Christmas decor and wreaths.Check out the Facebook page for more info. Admission is free. Scrooge's Christmas CarolSaturday and Sunday this weekend and next, enjoy The Guild's musical theatre school's musical adaptation of a favourite Christmas classic. 'Bah, Humbug!' Scrooge's Christmas Carol will be on stage at The Guild in Charlottetown Saturday at 4 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m.Tickets are $15 and can be purchased over the phone at (902) 620-3333 or at the box office at The Guild on Queen Street. For more info check out The Guild's website or Facebook page. Calypso SecretsReequal Smith, an emerging dancer/choreographer and the woman behind P.E.I.'s only Black-owned dance company, Oshun Dance Studios, presents Calypso Secrets at The Guild in Charlottetown this Saturday and next from 9 to 10 p.m.Smith created Oshun Dance "to bring young women artists of all ethnicities together to find empowerment and to access outlets for creative expression through dance," The Guild's website says. Performed by an ensemble of four dancers, a vocalist and a drummer, Calypso Secrets fuses modern, jazz, African and funk styles, paired with live and recorded music including Afro-Caribbean, Latin, funk, reggae and jazz."The performance will celebrate the power, beauty, sexuality and strength of women, acknowledging the goddesses living inside each of us," the show's Facebook page says. Tickets are $20 and can be purchased here.Falafel take-outThere are still some tickets left for Sunday's annual falafel take-out at Saints Peter & Paul Orthodox Church in Charlottetown. Tickets are $12 per sandwich and can be purchased at the Brighton Clover Farm in Charlottetown, from one of the organizers listed on the event's Facebook page, or via email and etransfer to falafel@orthodoxpei.ca.Pickup is 12 to 3 p.m. Sunday at the back of the church, where masks must be worn indoors. Proceeds will go to support community needs and maintenance and upgrades at the church. More from CBC P.E.I. 22 hours ago CBC Why international travellers are allowed to connect to domestic flights without quarantine Jacob Frey never thought international travellers would be on his WestJet flight from Calgary to Edmonton — until he spotted several passengers wearing sombreros in the waiting area. After boarding the Nov. 22 flight, Frey said he learned that the passenger seated next to him and three passengers in the row behind were returning from vacation resorts in Mexico. "I was shocked,"said Frey, a laid-off sewer construction worker from Saskatoon who was flying to Edmonton to scope out job prospects. Frey worried that sitting near passengers who had visited resorts in Mexico could increase his chances of being exposed to the virus. "People going to an all-inclusive resort during a pandemic, that's inherently irresponsible," he said. "So it's obvious that health is not their primary concern." When Canadian passengers take domestic flights during the COVID-19 pandemic, they may be sharing the cabin with international travellers on a connecting flight who have yet to quarantine. Although many travellers entering Canada must quarantine for 14 days, they don't have to start the process until reaching their final destination — as long as they have no COVID-19 symptoms. When asked about this policy, the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) told CBC News that the risk of COVID-19 transmission on a plane is relatively low compared to other enclosed settings. Many travellers take connecting flights Since Canada closed its borders to most non-essential travel in late March, more than 1.5 million Canadians and foreigners have entered the country by air. Between March and September, an estimated 17 per cent of air passengers arriving in Canada took a connecting domestic flight, according to data compiled by Transport Canada. Several countries, including Australia and New Zealand, require travellers to quarantine at their first point-of-entry before taking connecting flights. Dr. Isaac Bogoch, an infectious diseases specialist, says that's an extreme approach to combating the virus' spread that may not go over well with Canadian travellers. "I think in general, many people would not be accepting of having to stay in a quarantine hotel at that point of arrival." Dr. Bogoch, based at Toronto General Hospital, also said it's unclear how beneficial a point-of-entry quarantine policy would be in Canada, considering the number of COVID-19 infections associated with international travel is small. "It's a drop in the bucket. So you have to ask yourself, would a policy like that significantly contribute to our pandemic response?" Over the past eight months, the percentage of COVID-19 cases linked to international travel has ranged from 0.4 per cent in May to 2.9 per cent in July, according to PHAC. Last month it was 0.6 per cent. Passenger tests positive PHAC data also shows that, since March 25, more than 2,000 domestic and international flights in Canada have carried at least one passenger who, shortly afterwards, tested positive for COVID-19. Frey learned five days after his WestJet flight that someone seated near him had tested positive. He said he got tested and was negative, but Alberta Health Services still directed him to quarantine for 14 days. "Basically, I'm sidelined for two weeks," said Frey who's self-isolating at a friend's place in Edmonton. "It's frustrating." He doesn't know if the COVID-19-positive passenger was returning from Mexico. Even so, Frey said if he had known that international travellers would be on his flight, he would have cancelled it — unless Westjet provided assurances they'd be seated in a separate section. "They can be the first ones on the plane, last ones off and keep them separate from everyone else," he said. WestJet told CBC News that it's not necessary to separate international and domestic passengers on a plane, because the airline has implemented stringent health and hygiene policies, and Canadian health officials have found that the risk of transmission on an aircraft is low. Canada's chief medical officer, Dr. Teresa Tam said last month that protective measures such as mandatory mask policies, health screenings and effective ventilation systems have made planes a relatively safe place to be during the pandemic. "The modern aircraft is actually really good in terms of air exchanges and the way airflow occurs in the cabin," she said. "There have been very few reports — extremely rare reports, actually — of transmission aboard aircraft." WATCH | How airborne transmission increases the need for ventillation: Dr. Bogosh agrees that the actual plane ride is fairly safe, but said there are other aspects of air travel that pose a danger such as boarding and exiting the aircraft, and picking up checked luggage. "There is a risk because there's more bottlenecks and people crowding together." He added that domestic passengers also pose a threat due to surging COVID-19 infections in Canada, so the best way to avoid exposure is not to travel. "We should be staying as close to home as possible, avoiding non-essential trips." 23 hours ago Ad•Club Mahindra Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdGo On A 4N/5D* Diwali Holiday Enjoy magical holidays safely with us, Become a member and light up this Diwali with a FREE 4N/5D* holiday. Reuters Tesla says Black people hold just 4% of its U.S. leadership roles Women comprise 17% of the company's U.S. leadership roles - directors and vice presidents - and 21% of the overall workforce, according to the report. The carmaker noted, though, that leadership roles were a "very small cohort", or less than 0.4%, of its workforce. Elon Musk's Tesla, whose meteoric rise has seen it become the most valuable auto company in the world and worth about $550 billion, acknowledged the lack of representation. 22 hours ago CBC Red squirrels going nuts for Ottawa couple's Christmas lights, but reason remains a mystery Red squirrels have again chewed off and carried away hundreds of dollars worth of festive lights from one Ottawa neighbourhood, making spirits not so bright this Christmas.Just why the bulb bandits are doing it remains a mystery, however.It started last year when Michael and Sarah McCabe hung three 150-bulb strings on their backyard fence outside their home in the Manor Park neighbourhood — as they had for the past three decades. But a couple of weeks into December, the display mysteriously went dark.When they investigated, the McCabes found the wires chewed through and several bulbs gone."We're trying to figure out what they're doing with the bulbs, because they cut the wire to both sides and we can't find them anywhere," Michael McCabe said.This year, thinking the squirrels had objected to the lights atop the fence because they interfered with their backyard "highway," the McCabes moved the lights to their back deck.But before December had even arrived, the rodents absconded with more bulbs — about $200 worth.A few houses down the street, Bob Porter has had the same costly problem."I just replaced the strings two days ago. Heaven forbid they chew them again," Porter said.Picky crittersThere are several theories about why the squirrels appear determined to stop Christmas from coming.Though the rascally rodents don't seem to favour any particular colour, they have indicated a preference for LED bulbs manufactured for Canadian retailers by the Chinese company Ting Shen — the very lights the McCabes began using last year.But at least one retailer said it's unaware of the problem."This is the first time we have received customer feedback about squirrels damaging Christmas lights," wrote Meghan Furman, a spokesperson for Home Hardware, where the McCabes purchased their lights. "We take all customer concerns seriously and are looking into this unusual incident."Porter purchased his Ting Shen-made lights, marketed under the Noma brand, from Canadian Tire."I feel their pain," said Bill Dowd, a former Ottawa 67's hockey player who started Skedaddle Humane Wildlife Control after hanging up his skates.Dowd's company also installs seasonal lights and is frequently called upon to replace bulbs that have been stolen by red squirrels.One theory suggests that the animals are drawn to the bulbs because they're tasty."Would you believe the plastic insulation that covers various electrical wires is soy-based?" police in Plainfield, Ill., posted online recently in an attempt to explain the phenomenon before citizens call to report the vandalism.Rodents have also been blamed for taste-testing the bioplastic insulation used in modern automotive wiring.WATCH | Squirrels rule the roost over family's festive decorations:Always experimenting"They're wired to try out new stuff," explained Ottawa naturalist Dan Brunton.But Brunton utterly rejects the theory that the rodents have been duped by either the flavour or shape of the bulbs."Nope. They'd know that after bite one," he said, explaining that the red squirrel's unique survival strategy is to constantly experiment, testing their environment for possible new food sources.Before humans, houses and plastics appeared on the landscape, it was a sound strategy."They're applying wild techniques to urbanized human landscapes, and sometimes it can be really weird. But sometimes it works to their advantage," Brunton said.The McCabes have had enough of the experimentation — they say that next year, they'll be keeping their Christmas lights inside the house. 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative COVID-19 patients transferred to Vancouver Island to ease stress on northern ICUs The increasing number of people with severe COVID-19 symptoms is stressing ICU capacities in the north and patients have been transferred to other regions to ensure adequate critical care services can continue to be provided in Northern Health, said a spokesperson. “We are seeing increased need for hospitalizations and patients needing critical care,” said Eryn Collins, Northern Health media relations manager. On Dec. 4, there were 39 people with COVID-19 listed in Northern Health, with 11 of those patients in critical care. Almost 70 per cent of the total 101 hospitalizations in Northern Health have taken place in the last 34 days. “We still have capacity to provide critical care in our northern system,” said Eryn Collins. “But we’re also seeing an increase in that level of need, so we’re accessing that capacity elsewhere in the province.” Recently, two patients diagnosed with COVID-19 were transferred to a Vancouver Island hospital. “It’s very important in some of our regional hospitals, such as Mills Memorial, that we ensure there is adequate ICU capacity in case of other circumstances that occur,” said Health Minister Adrian Dix on Dec. 3. “For example, the potential – especially this time of year – of a major accident on the highway.” According to the Ministry of Health, as of Nov. 30, 17 of the 41 ICU and critical care-type beds in Northern Health were vacant and an additional 23 ‘surge’ beds could be deployed, if necessary. Northern Health has the fewest beds of all the health authorities but it also has the smallest population. “The capacity and occupancy varies, not just for us, but for every health region in the province,” said Collins. The ministry’s latest count indicated two of five beds were unoccupied in Mills Memorial Hospital in Terrace; three of four ICU beds were vacant in Fort St. John; eight of 23 beds were vacant at University Hospital of Northern BC in Prince George, and four of 9 beds were open throughout the rest of the north. There were also 100 ventilators across the region, according to Northern Health. “Where appropriate, patients are moved,” Dix said. “Sometimes from the north to Vancouver Island or Metro Vancouver.” The ability to transfer patients across health authorities is an essential aspect of the government’s pandemic response plan released in March by Dix, Deputy Health Minister Stephen Brown and Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry. “It was made clear at that time that this was the potential that we would be looking at if we started to see a certain trajectory of COVID activity and hospitalizations,” said Collins. “And we are, along with the rest of the province, seeing those increases.” About 56 per cent of the people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the north (and in B.C.) had done so since Oct. 31. Provincially, almost 50 per cent of all hospitalizations have taken place in the last month or so. As of Dec. 4, in Northern Health, 978 people had tested positive, while 36,132 people had been diagnosed provincially. Despite the added pressure of COVID-19 patients on the healthcare system, the province continues to have 76 per cent occupancy rate in its critical care beds. When surge beds are included in the ICU count, the occupancy rate drops to less than 65 per cent, said Dix. The province-wide pandemic strategy outlined how the healthcare system would maintain 17 COVID-19 care sites and ensure adequate capacity under a range of potential pandemic scenarios. The plan revealed the number of acute care beds, ICU-type beds, ventilators, and additional surge beds that could be deployed to meet evolving healthcare demands across B.C. during the pandemic. “We are using, as is the rest of the province, the capacity that is in the provincial healthcare system… to make sure that we can continue to care for everyone’s needs, not just COVID-related,” said Collins. Patients are commonly transported to other regions for specialized treatment, such as cardiac care in Vancouver or other reasons not to do with COVID-19, Collins said. “That’s something that happens all the time in health care,” said Dix. “What you are seeing is the public health care system working as it should in a pandemic.” Fran@thegoatnews.ca / @FranYanorFran Yanor, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Rocky Mountain Goat 23 hours ago Ad•Morningstar Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. Ad2 Strategies To Get Out Of Debt Want to be loan free? Here is help on how to triumph in the battle with debt. CBC Business booming for Sussex area Christmas tree farmer One New Brunswick Christmas tree grower says business is booming this year despite, or maybe even because of, the COVID-19 pandemic.Laura Folkins owns L and R Evergreens, a Christmas tree farm in Kierstead Mountain near Sussex.She said she has already shipped plenty of trees, and it's only the first week of December."There seems to be a real uptake on the wholesale level," said Folkins."Those trees have all been shipped because stateside they want them for the American Thanksgiving or around that time. And then we ship a lot to Alberta and just because of the distance, they have to go fairly early in November."Traffic up at U-CutBut, it's not just the markets in the U.S. and Alberta that are booming.Folkins said she's seen more visitors to the farm's U-Cut, which she attributes to the pandemic keeping people closer to home."The snowbirds aren't going south or a lot of them aren't," said Folkins. "A lot of people working from home. So they're saying, 'Well, I guess we're going to be here, we might as well fix up and put some lights on and just feel festive'."She also said more people have been abandoning artificial trees lately, getting bored with the same tree year after year."That's the wonderful thing about a real tree, is that it's never the same next year," said Folkins. "No matter how hard you try to duplicate it … there's something different in what nature provides for us."She said she used to sell a lot of trees to Ontario, but a past glut of trees dried up that market.She then discovered the Alberta market was in need of trees.Maritimes pining for firsFolkins said spruce will grow in Alberta but it's generally too dry to grow the balsam fir she produces, and that's what many people are looking for, including some New Brunswick expats."There's an awful lot of Maritimers in Alberta and spruce doesn't cut it for them," said Folkins. "They want a fir. They want something that reminds them of home."Folkins said COVID-19 protocols are in place, meaning people will have to wear masks when they visit the U-Cut and stay in their household bubble. But there's lots of room for physical distancing and plenty of trees left."I can't imagine that we've ever run out of trees," said Folkins. 21 hours ago CBC Residents fear 'canyon of condos' on Kingston Road but planners say more density needed As the pace of development along Kingston Road in the city's east end intensifies, people who live in communities along the old Highway 2 worry it will become a "canyon of condos" and spoil existing neighbourhoods.Already, Karen Azucar says development pressures have already cost her her home in an area of southwest Scarborough called Birch Cliff."I love where I live. I'm a big part of my community. I have a salon nearby," said Azucar, who moved into Lenmore Court, a complex with three low-rise apartment blocks close to the lake on Kingston Road just west of Birchmount Road, five years ago.The owner of Salon O found out a few weeks ago that the buildings would be torn down and replaced by a nine-storey condominium tower. She's upset news of the"demoviction" came in the middle of a pandemic."I had just re-opened my salon and I was trying to get back into business after not working for three months and I just can't deal with this right now."The developer and local councillor say the project is in its early stages and open to community input. A meeting is planned for next week.It's just the latest example of redevelopment moving outward from the core as neighbourhoods along Kingston Road become desirable places to live. The city's official plan encourages intensification — building denser, more heavily populated neighbourhoods with more condo complexes and apartment buildings — along such major arterial roads.As a result, there are dozens of projects along the road in various stages of planning, approval and construction as the city has designated "urban growth centres" along such intensification corridors.John Hartley has lived in The Beach area for four decades, but five years ago, he bought a home on picturesque Lakeside Drive. which begins at Kingston Road and ends at Lake Ontario. He plans to fight the plan to build a nine-storey condo complex steps from his front door."It's an attack on my home, plain and simple," said Hartley, who believes the COVID-19 pandemic has put arguments for intensification to the test as people are moving out from the downtown core."Putting in another 265 units on top of the 6,000 already proposed for Kingston Road, it's just a failure of planning."Frank Clayton, a senior research fellow at Ryerson University's Centre for Urban Policy and Land Development, recently reviewed how pre-zoning areas for intensification can help speed up the supply of needed housing.And he also used to have an office not far from Lenmore Court."Cities have to grow. And they have to grow up or out," said Clayton.He said Kingston Road is ripe for redevelopment. It had been the major eastern route in and out of Toronto to Kingston and Montreal before Highway 401 was built in the 1960's It's still a way tens of thousands of commuters get to and from downtown."Even with a pandemic there's a huge demand for housing, but with development there's a huge lag," he said. "If supply doesn't respond to demand, prices go through the roof."Urban planners like Clayton prefer what they call "densification" to sprawl. They say it encourages walking and cycling to work, public transit, safety, and energy efficiency, whereas building more suburban subdivisions leads to more car use, consumption of fossil fuels, pollution and the paving over of valuable farmland and green space.The push for more density is the reason more condos are getting built outside the downtown core, and why the mid-rise boom in Leslieville and The Beach is rippling outward along Kingston Road and Queen Street East.Clayton says height and density are dictated by the costs of the project, not community demands. He says heights of eight and 10 storeys are not unreasonable along Kingston Road."It can't be just what the local community wants.It's got to be a combination of what works from a development perspective, the developer can make money on, because they always want to make money, and they provide housing."But those in the community worry about what it will look like if developers have free rein."It's absolutely going to be a canyon of condos. They are too dense, too wide and too high," said Anna Dewar Gully of the Birch Cliff Village Community Association.She points to the Kingston Road Revitalization Plan, unveiled in 2010 in which the city agreed to limit building heights for much of the area from Birchmount Road to Warden Avenue to between four and six storeys, "There just seems to be a foregone conclusion that if developers want more density then what's in the plan that was carefully consulted on in this community ... we are going to defer to that need to make tons of money." 21 hours ago CBC Sask. teen reclaiming disability symbol through clothing brand A 19-year-old from Saskatoon is using a new clothing brand to reclaim a symbol that often hangs over people with disabilities.Bryson Bolianatz has cerebral palsy and uses a wheelchair. After growing up seeing a lack of representation of persons with disabilities in the world of fashion, he decided to do something himself with his free time during the COVID-19 pandemic."I was like 'You know what? If nobody else has done this before me, I'm just going to be the guy to do it,'" Bolianatz said. In Oct. 2020, Bolianatz launched the Best Legs Supply Company. Every piece of clothing features the handicapped symbol shown on parking stalls or bathroom doors. "The whole thing is centred around using disabilities as a pride thing rather than like something to look down on," he said. "Let's take that. Let's put it on my shirt. Let's get people excited about it."John Loeppky is a disabled artist and freelance writer who often speaks about issues affecting people with disabilities. He said it's Boliantz's idea is great. "What Bryson is talking about in terms of reclaiming that symbol that has, sort of hangs over the community in some ways, and reclaiming it through a Saskatchewan clothing brand, I think that's a great millennial way of doing things," Loeppky said. Bolianatz designs each piece of clothing himself as things he would like to wear out, he said. They often have bright colours. He likes to make sure 'Best Legs' is on each as well."A lot of people like when they hear the name 'Best Legs,' they kind of like laugh … no doubt, there is like an element of comedy to it," Bolianatz said. "The way I look at it is 'Best Legs' doesn't necessarily mean like our legs are the best. It just means that we as a community and as a group of people do the best we can with what we've been given."The response has been more than expected, Bolianatz said. "Actually a lot of my sales, and this is something that I'm actually really proud of, have come from able-bodied people, which I think is super important," he said. He wanted to reach other people with disabilities and was glad to see able-bodied people get on board, he said. There was even an exciting collaboration with the music group Portugal. The Man."Their guitarist, Eric Howk is his name, he is a wheelchair user. When I was starting the company and trying to get stuff off the ground, I reached out to him on Instagram and I was like, 'Hey, man, I know this is kind of a shot in the dark, but this is what I'm doing.'"Harlock responded and said he was absolutely on board. Boliantz said he couldn't believe the famous musician was interested in a collaboration. In the future, Bolianatz said he hopes to get Best Legs to be a mainstream company that people can recognize simply on the street. "I wanted to get to a point where everybody is like, 'Oh yeah, I'll wear this," he said. "'This is cool clothing and a cool message.'" 21 hours ago Ad•Cars24 Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdBook Cars24 Appointment Online Book Free Car Inspection - Instant Payment - Hassle Free Documentation - Free RC Transfer The Canadian Press Romania: Election expected to usher in 'European' generation BUCHAREST, Romania — Romanians will vote Sunday in a legislative election expected to restore some measure of stability in a country with one of the European Union's highest emigration rates, and bring to power a generation that came of age in a time of national turmoil and strongly identifies as European. Cabinet shakeups and no-confidence votes have given Romania five prime ministers in as many years. According to most pre-election polls, the weekend vote is likely to favour reform-oriented politicians united in their resolve to keep Romania in step with the EU mainstream and away from the camp of other post-communist nations, such as Hungary and Poland, with their populist, euroskeptic leaders. The centre-right National Liberal Party, known by its Romanian acronym PNL, appears set to become the top vote-getter. But the mainstay party of Romania's EU-aligned, austerity-prone social conservatives is expected to fall far short of a parliamentary majority. Its main rival, the left-leaning, populist Social Democratic Party, or PSD in Romanian, won the last election in 2016 and ran through three prime ministers before PNL first took the reins of a minority government a year ago. The PSD-led government had drawn heavy criticism from the EU for its interference with the judiciary and a cascade of corruption scandals involving some of its most prominent members. The Social Democrats' chaotic tenure triggered two years of massive street protests that gave voice to a new generation of relatively young, foreign-educated and proudly European politicians who point to widespread graft and fraud in Romanian government ministries and state institutions. Some of them now are running for seats in parliament. “There are many state institutions under political control which function really badly, and the problems there need to be exposed,” said Valeriu Nicolae, a human rights activist who is running as an independent candidate. “MPs never tackled these issues because everyone has an interest in these state institutions. They either have relatives working there, friends or party members, and it’s not nice to expose your friends.” Nicolae is an initiator of the RESPECT anti-racism campaign in football, launched at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, one of the most visible campaigns of this sort in the world, and says that in the past he was “treated horribly (for) being Roma” in Romania. He said he decided to run after witnessing what he considered to be a weak effort to prevent “a man accused of horrible things and a very dubious person” winning a district mayor's election in the capital, Bucharest. In one week, Nicolae collected 13,000 qualifying signatures, 3,500 more than he needed to get on Sunday's ballot. “I am convinced that (change) is possible,” he said. “I am not bound by an interest to protect my political career. My life quality will suffer if I get into parliament.” A more organized new force is USR-PLUS, a mix of pro-EU technocrats and social-justice and anti-corruption activists that coalesced last year into a progressive political alliance. Polls predict the alliance, whose members hold divergent views on many cultural issues, will get around 20% of Sunday’s vote for both chambers of parliament. That's the same share forecast for the PSD, which has dominated Romanian politics since the fall of communism in 1989. The alliance has targeted young and disillusioned voters, including with pledges to depoliticize and fully reform Romania's civil service and eradicate corruption. It has also promised to eliminate income tax for minimum-wage workers and create well-paying jobs to lure back young, highly educated Romanians who have been leaving in droves since the country joined the EU in 2007. “It’s good to see a new generation of leaders who understand the needs of our society and are professionally and personally fit to meet them,” said Dacian Ciolos, who represents Romania in the European Parliament and is one of the progressive alliance’s top leaders. “It puts pressure on us, as a new political entity, because we have to meet higher expectations.” The alliance has pledged not to be part of a parliamentary majority that would include the PSD, which has accused prominent USR-PLUS members of being part of a dark anti-Romanian conspiracy linked to Hungarian-American philanthropist George Soros, a favourite bogeyman of Central European populists. At the same time, USR-PLUS has indicated it has no intention of playing second fiddle to the PNL in a future coalition government. Some analysts predict the USR-PLUS alliance will try to assert itself in a future governing coalition by demanding a reconfiguration of the government and the prime minister's job for Ciolos, 51. He served a stint at the helm of Romania’s first, short-lived technocratic government several years ago. It would be a bitter pill for the PNL, but one it might be forced to swallow if it wants to preserve its image as a party driven by a genuine desire to rid Romania of a corruptive welfare state model, which it blames on PSD's decades-long dominance. Most analysts think the conservative PNL and the progressive alliance will find a compromise. “It’s in their best interest to govern together despite their (ideological and economic) differences which are incomprehensible to most of their supporters,” political analyst Andrei Taranu said. Romania was plagued by widespread poverty before the coronavirus pandemic, with over 25% of the population of 19 million living on less than $5.50 a day. The pandemic has exacerbated structural problems, including the near collapse of the public health care system. To date, the EU's seventh-most populous country has confirmed over a half-million virus cases and more than 12,000 deaths. As a result of the pandemic and virus containment measures, Romania’s fiscal deficit is expected to widen this year to around 9% of gross domestic product, compared with 4.3% in 2019. Nicolae, who himself grew up in poverty, has dedicated his life to helping vulnerable children escape a life of misery and drug-abuse, and giving them access to education. “Although I say all the time ‘I’m a gypsy I’m a gypsy,’ people no longer register me like that” he said. ”That I, a Romanian Roma, ran as an independent and I managed to gather the necessary signatures, is a very good signal. And if I win, it would be a great signal." Some 18 million people are registered to vote on Sunday at 18,000 polling stations across the country. In a reflection of the importance of the Romanian diaspora living and working abroad, there are also 748 polling stations in other countries, almost twice as many as there were four years ago. Voters will be filling 136 seats in the Senate and 329 in the Chamber of Deputies. No special virus precautions have been put in place beyond the general requirements to wear masks, sanitize hands and maintain social distancing. ___ Andreea Alexandru in Bucharest contributed. By Vadim Ghirda And Sabina Niksic, The Associated Press 22 hours ago CBC The high mental toll of the pandemic, and what to do about it There is sadness, but most of all boredom.Linda Foy, an octogenarian grandmother of three who lives in Montreal West, recently decided to knit a hat for her daughter because, well, she couldn't think of anything better to do.Behind the ennui lurks frustration."I'm angry. I'm angry, and I don't know who I'm angry at," she said. "I'm not angry at [Prime Minister Justin] Trudeau or [Premier François] Legault, or the Chinese. I'm not angry at anybody. I'm just angry that all of us are in this situation."Like everyone else who lives in a so-called "red zone," Foy's family has had to scrub its Christmas tradition, which usually involves a lavish breakfast and plenty of conversation.She saw it coming and understands why — one of her sons is a physician at the Montreal General Hospital — but it's still hard psychologically."It was so contradictory and the conditions were so ridiculous: 10 people here and 10 people there. I was really expecting there to be no Christmas and so I wasn't surprised. But the announcement made me face the reality, which I've been avoiding for many months of COVID," Foy said.The worst part? No hugs."I hate it," she said."We're very affectionate, very tactile, and I miss it terribly."Foy says she is coping as best she can, like most Quebecers.Her story is mirrored across the province: forced isolation, hopes of a normal-ish Christmas dashed, the stress and frustration of not knowing when it will all end.The psychic toll is mounting as the pandemic drags on. Here's a look at exactly how it's affecting our collective mental health, and what can be done about it.Growing problemA pair of recent surveys hint at mounting distress in the province.The Early Childhood Observatory recently published the results of a poll of parents with children under the age of six. It found 44 per cent of respondents said the pandemic is affecting their ability to stay calm around their kids, and 79 per cent said they had not sought out an external support service."This is very preoccupying, we know these parents are stressed and they can't count on their loved ones to help with their kids," said the observatory's Fannie Dagenais.This week, a Université de Sherbrooke team, led by public health specialist Dr. Mélissa Généreux, released the second instalment in a longitudinal polling study it launched in the late summer.The survey reached 8,500 adults in all regions of Quebec and was conducted from Nov. 6-18.Nearly half the respondents aged 18 to 24 presented "significant symptoms of anxiety or major depression." About one-third of the health care workers surveyed demonstrated a high prevalence of the same, as did an increasing proportion of people who work at home.Among the other findings: * One in four adults (one in two young adults) report symptoms consistent with generalized anxiety disorder or major depression. Men and young people are especially affected. * Suicidal ideation is twice as common, jumping from three to six per cent of responses since the summer. * Psychological disorders are much more present in Montreal. * Heavy drinking is on the rise among those 35 and over. * More than one-quarter of respondents perceive public health regulations as exaggerated and unclear.What can be doneMarie-Claude Geoffroy, an assistant professor in youth psychology at McGill University who holds the Canada Research Chair in Youth Suicide Prevention, said staying connected is key — whether through a phone call, a text message, an email or a video chat."Let your friends know that you are there for them," she said.Geoffroy is leading a team of researchers at McGill tracking a group of young adults. She found that young people who felt they have higher levels of social support reported fewer mental health problems.She is planning to follow up with the same cohort this winter, to see how the pandemic has affected her findings.Généreux, for her, part suggested raising an army of peer counselors."One thing I would suggest to people who are feeling not so bad is to get trained with the psychological first-aid training," she told CBC Quebec's Breakaway, citing the online offering from the Canadian Red Cross."This way, if you get the training you're going to feel much more comfortable to bring some support to people you may encounter. Your neighbours, family, friends, colleagues, that may display some signs of distress."Shirlette Wint, a psychotherapist and social worker based in Montreal, said moments of quiet, away from others, can be seen as "bittersweet," providing us with an opportunity for introspection."It's allowed a lot of people to really make some life-changing decisions," she said.For some of her longtime patients, who struggled with anxiety before the pandemic, the upheaval of 2020 has created "a kind of comfort.""They are not just being anxious for nothing," she said."It allows them also to feel supported because now it's the entire society that has the same concern."While challenging and often upsetting, Wint said the commitment to following public guidelines should be seen as a chance to contribute to something larger than one's self."I see this really as: yes, it's sad, but it's an opportunity to express gratitude in so many different ways," she said.Beyond that, one of the main ways to remain mentally healthy is to stay physically active.The province has set up an online guide with ideas for how to stay mentally healthy.Among the suggestions: * Do physical activities that enable you to relieve stress and eliminate tension. * Enjoy the little pleasures of life, like listening to music, reading or taking a warm bath. * If you live close to nature, take walks and breathe deeply and peacefully.Where to get helpQuebec has expanded its 811 hotline to offer more assistance for anyone in need.Other resources include: 23 hours ago CBC Confused by the economy during the COVID-19 pandemic? Don't worry, so are the economists The numbers can be so big, they're hard to get your head around. The swings are so volatile, you can lose your footing.And yet, with millions of Canadians struggling through the COVID-19 crisis, many of us want to understand what is going on with the economy."My head is spinning, too," said Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist at CIBC. "So I don't blame people, because we've never seen anything like this."Every week, a flood of new data comes out. This week, we were inundated with the federal government's fiscal update, GDP figures and job numbers. All trying to shape the story of the economy. Sometimes the numbers contradict each other. Sometimes they give a sort of head-fake and contradict themselves.The fiscal update that came out on Monday had built all its projections on an average of the forecasts from the big banks. The next morning, Statistics Canada released quarterly GDP numbers that missed the forecast by a staggering seven points. By the end of the week, jobs data came out showing Canadian employers added three times as many jobs as expected.Every economist is trying to figure out what those numbers are telling us. And they're not always getting it right."Economists have never been more wrong about where the data would come through," said Frances Donald, chief economist and head of macro strategy at Manulife Investment Management in Toronto.New methodsMost of the time, she said, economists rely on data such as job growth and retail sales numbers to make sense of the situation. The problem is those statistics tell us what was happening months ago."This is a daily crisis that requires daily data points," she said.To combat that, economists have turned to higher frequency data such as google mobility trends, restaurant reservation tallies and public transit numbers.But Donald said the bigger issue is the unique, unprecedented nature of this crisis. "We don't have a functional precedent for what is happening," she said.There may be other moments in the past that share some similarities, but nothing experts can use to model probable outcomes.Change of perspectiveTal said he understands why more Canadians than usual seem to be following economic updates with bated breath. But he said the best option is to focus less on the details and think of the broader economic themes.So, while the short term is bad, he said, the medium term looks better."We are buying time at this point," he said, until the virus comes under control. Yes, the world is headed into a long and dark winter, he said. Yes, COVID-19 cases are rising and government-imposed restrictions could spread. And, yes, households and businesses will need government support and record-low interest rates to provide them a bridge to the second half of next year, he said.But if you zoom out and look at the longer-term forecasts, the second half of next year shows a lot of promise. Tal said the economic crisis is largely due to the fact that people aren't spending as much as they normally would.Some of that is because of government-mandated closures.But some of it is also a question of confidence.Even if the movie theatres were open, how many people would pay to sit in close contact with strangers for a two-hour film?Looking aheadThat spending issue is a large source of the hope for 2021. Tal calculates that Canadian households and businesses are sitting on $170 billion in savings. And once the virus comes under control, he predicts that money will spill back into the economy."I see this unleashing of potential demand in the economy," he said. "Most of it will be in the services sector. And that will benefit employment for people that are struggling. It's just a question of time."So, in the interim, he recommends not getting too caught up in the minutiae of the daily economic data.That's advice financial markets seem to be following. As COVID-19 case counts soar and government-imposed restrictions spread, the major stock market indexes are all climbing. Donald said markets seem to be looking past the short- and medium-term unknowns and banking on a solid return next year.WATCH | The National's report on the fall economic update: She said the markets don't seem to be too caught up in the daily barrage of economic information."The markets are thinking ahead to where we are going to be in 6, 12, 48 months," she said. "Not where we are at this very moment."Besides, she said, one of the best indicators available is to just look around and see how people around you are acting. Are people nervous and scared? Are they staying home or are they out shopping? The data will catch up to our behaviour eventually. "You don't need a PhD in economics to look around at your friends and family and get a sense of what their behaviour is," she said. "We don't need numbers and releases, we just need to look out our front doors." 23 hours ago More Stories