Canada | News & Headlines - Yahoo News Canada Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Watch Live Ontario Premier Doug Ford updates on COVID-19 response canada Health The Canadian Press The latest news on COVID 19 developments in Canada for Dec. 7 2020 The latest news on COVID-19 developments in Canada (all times Eastern): 1:30 p.m. One of the largest school divisions in Saskatchewan is moving to remote learning as classrooms deal with a spike in COVID-19 infections. Regina Public Schools says students will take classes from home next week, the final week before schools break for the holidays. It says students will continue learning remotely when the break ends on Jan. 4, and the plan is to have them to return to classrooms Jan. 11. The division say the change impacts all of its schools and students in all grades. Teachers, in the meantime, will continue working in schools. The division says staffing levels are strained and it's sending students home as a proactive measure. --- 12:50 p.m. Newfoundland and Labrador public health officials say the Pfizer vaccine will be arriving in the province next week. Premier Andrew Furey says he expects 1,950 doses of the Pfizer vaccine to arrive in St. John’s next week, with another shipment expected later in the month. Furey says two thermal shippers for the vaccine should arrive in the province on Wednesday or Thursday of this week. In the meantime, Furey says the province will not be rejoining the so-called Atlantic bubble and all visitors to the province will be required to self-isolate for 14 days whether they’re from Atlantic Canada or not. --- 12:30 p.m. Halifax police have charged a gym in Bedford, N.S., for failing to comply with recently instituted COVID-19 rules. Officers say they received a call this morning about a facility that was staffed and had customers training inside, which goes against recent measures that ordered the closure of all fitness establishments in the region. The business, which was not named in the news release, was given a ticket for failing to adhere to the Emergency Measures Act, which carries a fine of $7,500. --- 12:15 p.m. Public Health officials in New Brunswick are reporting two new cases of COVID-19. The cases involve one person in their 40s in the Fredericton region and a person in their 70s in the Edmundston area. Both cases are self-isolating and under investigation. There are currently 81 active cases in the province and there have been 536 cases since the pandemic began. --- 11:50 a.m. Up to 249-thousand doses of Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine will arrive on Canadian soil before the end of the month. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says the first doses will be delivered next week. Health Canada is set to approve the vaccine for use in Canada any day now. The United Kingdom became the first country to approve the vaccine last week. --- 11:25 a.m. Health officials in Prince Edward Island are reporting four new cases of COVID-19. The new cases are a woman in her 20s, two men in their 20s and a man in his 30s. Chief Medical Officer of Health, Dr. Heather Morrison, says all four cases are close contacts with other cases announced over the weekend. There are currently 14 active cases, and there have been 84 cases on the Island since the pandemic began. --- 11:10 a.m. Nunavut is reporting three new cases of COVID-19. It says the infections are in Arviat, bringing that community’s active case total to 49. Located along the west coast of Hudson Bay, Arviat has been the worst hit by the pandemic since the territory recorded its first case in November. The community remains under lockdown measures. --- 11:08 a.m. Quebec is reporting 1,577 new cases of COVID-19 today and 22 additional deaths linked to the virus, three of which took place in the last 24 hours. Health officials say provincewide hospitalizations increased by 40 for a total of 818. Of those, 105 people are in intensive care, an increase of three compared to the day before. Quebec has now reported 153,176 COVID-19 cases and 7,277 deaths since the start of the pandemic. --- 10:45 a.m. Ontario is reporting 1,925 new cases of COVID-19 today, and 26 deaths related to the virus. That's a record high for new cases of the novel coronavirus in the province, topping yesterday's daily total by one. Health Minister Christine Elliott says there are 601 new cases in Toronto, 512 in Peel Region, and 167 in York Region. --- This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 7, 2020. The Canadian Press Ad ProctorsGallagher Learn The Principles of Prosperity Discover The Principles To Producing Wealth And Living The Life You Really Want… News The Canadian Press Alek Minassian would tell his victims he was lonely and angry at society, court hears TORONTO — The man who killed 10 people while driving a van on a Toronto sidewalk says he would tell his victims he committed the attack because he was lonely and angry at society. A psychiatrist says Alek Minassian told him if he were to try to explain his actions to one of his victims, he'd say he was isolated and bitter. But Dr. Alexander Westphal says the 28-year-old Minassian was just saying what he thought victims would want to hear and does not understand the effects of his actions. Westphal, the defence's star witness at Minassian's trial, has said the man lacks empathy and does not understand the moral wrongfulness of killing 10 people. Minassian, from Richmond Hill, Ont., has pleaded not guilty to 10 counts of first-degree murder and 16 counts of attempted murder and argues he should be found not criminally responsible due to autism spectrum disorder. His state of mind at the time of the attack is the sole issue at trial. Westphal has stopped short of saying Minassian should be found not criminally responsible, saying that is a legal matter not a psychiatric one. The prosecution played a video Monday where Westphal asks what Minassian might say to one of his victims who survived the 2018 attack. "The proper thing might be to apologize, but if I do that, I might have a very hostile reaction, and them saying 'it is not sincere,'" Minassian says in his orange jumpsuit in an interview room at the Toronto South Detention Centre. "I don’t know what to say to them." Westphal then asked Minassian to explain his actions. "I’d probably say I was feeling very isolated and bitter at society and I decided to take out my anger on random people," Minassian says. "I'd probably tell them I never had many friends, people were leaving me out, I felt like I was being shortchanged in life, it wasn’t any fun." Crown attorney Joe Callaghan said that showed Minassian's ability to view the perspective of the victim. Westphal, as he has much of the past several days of cross-examination, disagreed with Callaghan. The psychiatrist maintains that Minassian does not truly understand what he did was wrong due to his autism spectrum disorder. "There's no evidence he was an unhappy person who felt marginalized other than his use of it as an explanation to a victim," Westphal said. "I think he’s putting things in terms of what he thinks people are expecting to hear." In his report, Westphal concluded Minassian was not psychotic at the time, but had "an autistic way of thinking that was severely distorted in a way similar to psychosis. Court also heard Monday that Minassian had thought about abandoning the attack right up until the moment he stopped at a red light across the street from his first group of victims. Minassian told Westphal he used the so-called "incel-ideology — referring to men who are involuntarily celibate and angry at society because they cannot have sex with women — as a way to "rev" himself up for the attack. He said he thought about incel ideology as a way of "forcing myself into the mindset ... so that I don't chicken out at the last minute." "I was trying to push out all thoughts of trying to talk myself out of it." Westphal testified that Minassian has not shown any anger towards women and does not believe the incel ideology is part of the reason Minassian committed the attack This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 7, 2020. Liam Casey, The Canadian Press Science CBC No more stickers: Alberta plans move to high-tech reflective licence plates Albertans will no longer require expiry stickers on their licence plates starting next month as the province moves toward the adoption of reflective plates. The province is moving to the high-definition reflective plates once the stock of painted licence plates runs out sometime in fall 2021, a news release said Monday. "Alberta's government has been looking for ways to improve and modernize the delivery of registry services," Nate Glubish, minister of Service Alberta, said in the release. "By moving to reflective licence plates, expiry stickers become redundant and outdated." The government spends about $1.2 million each year to print, ship and store expiry stickers for licence plates for the more than 5.5 million vehicles registered in Alberta. According to the news release, stickers marking the month and year of registration, as well as stickers for fleet vehicles and permanent trailers, will not be issued in 2021. Alberta drivers and vehicle owners will still be responsible for renewing their registration on time, and will still require a valid certificate of vehicle registration, the release said. Albertans can sign up to receive an electronic renewal notice through a registry agent, the Alberta Motor Association, or MyAlberta eServices. The reflective plates can be scanned by automated licence plate readers, the release said, allowing police to check licence plate registration at roadside. Quebec, Saskatchewan, Northwest Territories and Manitoba have already moved away from the stickers. News CBC All Regina public schools moving to remote learning starting next week until Jan. 11 Public schools in Regina are temporarily moving to remote learning as of next week, the school board announced in a letter Monday.All students from pre-kindergarten to Grade 12 will move to remote learning for the week before the holiday break, Dec. 14 to 18, 2020, and the week after the break, Jan. 4 to 8, 2021. In-class learning will resume on Jan. 11, 2021, the letter says.All staff will continue working at the schools, it added."The decision, locally-made by Regina Public Schools, to move to remote learning for all students, is a proactive intervention to ensure safe continued learning for students, for the health of all student and employee families, and for the ongoing business continuity of the School Division and its schools," the letter says.More to come Thaltej Today33°18° Wed33°19° Thu33°18° Fri25°21° What to Read Next Canada's first shipment of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine could arrive as middle of December Yahoo News Canada Learn The Principles of Prosperity AdProctorsGallagher First Snow of Season Whitens Richmond, Virginia Storyful Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton Are 'Both Ready to Get Married,' Says Source People Matthew McConaughey calls out 'illiberal left' who 'absolutely condescend, patronize and are arrogant towards the other 50 percent' Yahoo Celebrity Take Time to Stop and Smile AdYahoo FeelGood Guy Loses Balance And Faceplants Into Snow While Skiing Down Mountain Jukin Media Trump ratchets up pace of executions before Biden inaugural Associated Press Armed Michiganders Gather Outside Secretary Of State's Home To Deny Voting Results HuffPost Cost of these hearing aids might surprise you AdHear.com Side effects from the COVID-19 vaccine means 'your body responded the way it's supposed to,' experts say USA TODAY Timelapses Show Three Days of Snowfall as Nor'easter Hits Maine Storyful Flames legend Jarome Iginla plays role of beleaguered motorist during Boston TV segment CBC How He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home AdRaging Bull Dua Lipa Rocks Flintstone Meets Fashion In Leather Palm Leaf Mini Dress Elle ‘He’s the president-elect, sir’: Fox’s Chris Wallace corrects Trump health secretary on Biden’s title The Independent World's smallest possum species spotted Reuters Videos Amazon Wardrobe Refresh Sale AdAmazon India Idris Elba Shows Off His Arm Muscles in Sydney, Plus Shia LaBeouf, Bella Hadid and More People Trump’s intelligence director says ‘we’ll see’ if there’s a Biden administration The Independent Giuliani Asks Woman To Remove Mask Days Before Virus Diagnosis In Resurfaced Clip HuffPost Looking for a Life Partner in Ahmedabad? AdShaadi.com Early Morning Snow Showers Charleston, West Virginia Storyful 'Getting great care': Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani hospitalized after testing positive for COVID-19 USA TODAY Almost Ready to Retire? Get Ready for a Huge CPP Change The Motley Fool You Are His Only Hope. Please Save Him By Donating AdKetto ABC Host Slaps Down GOP Senator's Fraud Claim: 'Why Can't You Accept The Results?' HuffPost 'Fear Me!': Mantis Puts on Impressive Show With Its 'Startle Display' Storyful Jason Momoa surprises young fan battling cancer with 'Aquaman' trident: 'Danny was speechless' Yahoo Celebrity Celebrate Diwali Care Se Adwww.bajajallianz.com Ontario COVID-19 cases surge to new record at 1,925 incidents in a day Yahoo News Canada 60,000 koalas hit by Australia's 'black summer' Reuters Videos Selma Blair and Sarah Michelle Gellar take extra safety precautions while reenacting famous kiss Yahoo TV Be a Club Mahindra Member & Get Free* iPhone 12Pro AdClub Mahindra Different Ways Princess Diana Broke Royal Protocol Women's Health Judge Jeanine calls Bill Barr a ‘reptile’ as Trumpworld turns on his attorney general The Independent Anchorage Wildlife Enthusiast Spots Pair of Moose 'Sparring' Storyful ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance AdICICI Lombard HSBC's 0.99% Mortgage Rate Is A Canadian First, But You'll Need To Borrow Big HuffPost Canada Contractors working on Trump's border wall are pointlessly blowing up chunks of Arizona that they won't have time to actually build on, campaigners say Business Insider Trump and Giuliani’s star witness at Michigan hearing had been charged with obscenity The Independent Monthly Income for your loved ones AdHDFC Life Tennessee Goats Enjoy Christmas Movie Night and Popcorn Storyful The Dylan catalogue, a 60-year rock 'n' roll odyssey, is sold The Canadian Press MPG Sport's affordable activewear makes the perfect gift this holiday season: Shop our top picks Yahoo Canada Style Secure Before You Step Out! AdBajaj Allianz Jon Ossoff debated an empty podium and called Sen. David Perdue a 'coward' for skipping the debate a month before their Senate runoff Business Insider Timelapse Captures Nor'easter's Heavy Snowfall in Nashua, New Hampshire Storyful Students Struggling With Online Learning A ‘Wake Up Call’ For Universities HuffPost Canada Full Body Checkup: 62.31% Off [Limited Time] AdMediFee.com 'American Beauty' screenwriter reflects on how Kevin Spacey impacted film's legacy: 'I wonder if that movie would get made now' Yahoo Movies