Miguel Algarín, a founder of beloved NYC poetry space, dies HOME MAIL NEWS SPORTS FINANCE CELEBRITY STYLE MOVIES WEATHER ANSWERS MOBILE Yahoo News Search query Sign in Mail Sign in to view your mail News News Coronavirus Coronavirus Originals Originals Canada Canada World World Business Business Entertainment Entertainment Sports Sports Science & Tech Science & Tech Weather Weather More More The Canadian Press Miguel Algarín, a founder of beloved NYC poetry space, dies Read full article December 5, 2020, 12:02 a.m.·1 min read NEW YORK — Miguel Algarín, poet, professor and a founder of New York City's beloved Nuyorican Poets Café performance space, has died. He was 79. Algarín died Monday at a Manhattan hospital from sepsis, said Daniel Gallant, executive director of the Nuyorican Poets Café. Born in Puerto Rico, Algarín and his family came to New York City when he was a child. After Algarín had returned to New York with degrees from the University of Wisconsin and Pennsylvania State University, he held gatherings with other poets in his apartment in the early 1970s, exploring Puerto Rican identity and other themes. Out of that was created the Nuyorican Poets Café, which by 1981 had moved to a building on Manhattan's lower east side where it remains. “Miguel was a brilliant poet, an influential professor and leader, and a supportive mentor who inspired and guided generations of artists," Gallant said. Algarín was a prolific writer, with multiple books of poetry to his name, and edited several anthologies as well. He spent years at Rutgers University in New Jersey, where he taught classes on Shakespeare, creative writing and ethnic literature, and became a professor emeritus. Gallant said the cafe would have an online tribute for Algarín this month, and would do something in person as soon as conditions allow. The Associated Press TRENDING 1. Supreme Court again asked to block Biden win in Pennsylvania 2. Georgia GOP seeks mail-in ballot changes after Biden's win 3. US intelligence director says China is top threat to America 4. Wisconsin high court declines to hear Trump election lawsuit 5. Two Grand Slam events added to curling bubble at Canada Olympic Park in Calgary Latest Stories Local Journalism Initiative Gander native bringing annual comedy show back home When the COVID-19 pandemic hit in the spring, the ramifications sent artists into a tailspin. Musicians, comedians and others who make their living performing in front of people saw their industries put on hold as the coronavirus forced governments to enact lockdowns as a safety measure. In the last couple of months, the arts have started to show a resurgence. Artists have got back to plying their trade and performing to audiences. Albeit those audiences are smaller due to the restrictions that are still in place. “I’d rather be doing quarter capacity than sitting on my couch for four months straight,” said St. John’s-based comic and Gander native Matt Wright. Since September, Wright has got back to working as regularly as you can in these times. He is back writing for "This Hour Has 22 Minutes" — over Zoom calls — and he has filmed a pair of standup sets for festivals in Ontario and Nova Scotia. On top of that, Wright is keeping his Christmas show streak alive. He has a pair of shows scheduled for today and Saturday at the Joseph R. Smallwood Arts and Culture Centre in Gander. St. John’s comic Stephen Payette is also on the bill. “Like a lot of people, I didn’t have any work for a long time during the beginning of (the pandemic) and it just went from doing puzzles and trying to grow parsley ... (to) as of September I’ve been working non-stop,” he said. For others, comedy during the pandemic has meant getting used to performing in front of audiences in different ways. That might mean performing over a Zoom call or streaming a show over a social media platform. St. John’s comic John Sheehan said the pandemic has altered his profession from a logistical standpoint. It also means becoming acquainted with performing to screens and fewer people, while adjusting to not having the audience to play off of. “It just takes getting used to a new aspect of it,” he said. As comedy starts to get rolling again, the content matter is sure to start reflecting society and the experiences of each comedian during the lockdown. Wright has found he has drifted a little bit toward writing about that experience, but still, there are challenges. “It’s weird,” he said. “For joke writing, you’re reliant on stuff happening to you and new stimulus. Once the restrictions eased a bit in Newfoundland, I started writing. “But when I was sitting around the house the first two months we were in absolute lockdown, I wasn’t doing any of that.” This will be the seventh year that Wright has held a Christmas show, and it is fair to say this will be his most unusual one yet. First, there is the date. In a normal year, the show would likely take place a couple of days after Christmas Day. In 2019, the Gander show came after a tour of the province’s arts and culture centres. The other unusual bit is the parameters of each show due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the regulations that surround it. Both shows are operating at just less than half capacity and they are being limited to just an hour. Either way, the audience will get the same brand of comedy from Wright. It's a show Wright looks forward to every year. “It is always nice to be playing at home,” he said. Nicholas Mercer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Central Voice 21 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative 14-year old St. Catharines student spells W-I-N at national championship Niagara is now home to one of the best young spellers in Canada. Leena Jalees, 14, of St. Catharines took home the gold at this year’s Spelling Bee of Canada national championship, beating out 25 other competitors in the intermediate division (ages 12-14) across the country. Jalees, who has entered the regional competitions on two previous occasions, said this was her first time reaching the national level, after winning Niagara’s competition earlier in November. Jalees said she had always been a good speller, particularly when it came to everyday words, and thought entering a spelling bee would help her expand her spelling abilities when it came to new and unfamiliar words. “I thought it would be fun to learn new words, and become a better speller, and know the tactics of how to break down the words and be able to spell words I have never heard of before. So I decided to do a spelling bee, just to see how well I could do.” Jalees did more than okay. In her first appearance on the national stage, she was crowned the winner in the intermediate division of the Spelling Bee of Canada after correctly spelling the word “taxonomist”. For Jalees, the word was a no-brainier. “When I found out that was the word, I was so relieved because I was already familiar with that word. I already knew how to spell it, so I didn’t have to think about it.” So how does one study for a spelling bee? The competitors were given a manual of 400 words two and a half weeks prior to the competition, but that doesn’t include tiebreaker words, which are entirely new, and come down to the participants' ability to break down the word itself. Jalees said her strategy involves looking at the words as multiple units, and understanding the origin of the word itself. “One of the words was polemicist. I thought it was a medical word, but then when I knew it had to do with politics, then I decided to change the way I spelled it to ending in 'cist'. So I was very grateful I didn’t start spelling it the way I was initially going to.” Jalees, who hopes to one day be an OB/GYN said she hopes to defend her title at next year’s competition, as it may be her last year of eligibility. “I am going to try again next year, and see how well I can do again.” Also representing Niagara at the national championship were Jimmy Zhou, of Niagara Falls, who competed in the junior division (ages 9-11) and Shirley Chen, of St. Catharines, who competed in the primary division (ages 6-8).Bryan Levesque, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Grimsby Lincoln News 23 hours ago Ad•Raging Bull Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdHow He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home Kyle Dennis took a leap of faith and decided to invest his savings of $15K in the stock market — $2.8M later, he owes his success to these strategies Local Journalism Initiative First Nation warned Yukon the ATAC resource road would ‘impair the process of reconciliation’ Had the ATAC mining access road in the Beaver River watershed been built, it would have constituted a “breach of the honour of the Crown” and betrayed First Nations people, according to a decision document released by the Yukon government after inquiries by The Narwhal. The document provides insight into the territorial government’s Nov. 27 decision to reject the proposed all-access road by Vancouver-based ATAC Resources, a mining exploration company with gold and copper claims in the region. The document also sheds light on concerns raised by the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun, on whose territory the claims are located. The rejected road was given a conditional green light by the Yukon Environmental and Socio-economic Assessment Board in 2017 but was awaiting a final decision from the Yukon government. The new route would have opened access to a 65-kilometre portion of the company’s three mineral claims that form the Rackla gold property and connected Keno City to the Tiger gold deposit, the site of a planned ATAC Resources’ open-pit gold mine. The First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun was “strongly opposed” to the project going ahead, the decision document reveals. The document contains a list of concerns raised by the nation, including fears the road would have caused “significant adverse impacts” on treaty rights such as hunting, fishing and trapping in traditional territory. That list also noted concerns the road would have prevented Na-Cho Nyäk Dun citizens from adequately exercising treaty rights in “one of the few remaining wilderness areas in its traditional territory.” The road would have “fundamentally alter[ed] an untouched portion of” the nation’s territory and would have “alienated” citizens from their lands. “Approving the application would permanently impair the process of reconciliation that the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun, the Yukon government and Canada have been engaged in for more than 30 years,” the document states. Na-Cho Nyäk Dun Chief Simon Mervyn did not return a request for comment. Andrew Carne, ATAC Resources’ vice-president of corporate and project development, told The Narwhal this week that the company is seeking legal counsel on the Yukon government’s decision and that, as a result, there’s little else he can state at this time. “ATAC does not agree with many material aspects of the government’s decision,” Carne said in an email to The Narwhal. In an ATAC Resources’ press release, president and CEO Graham Downs said the road’s cancellation suggests Yukon isn’t open for business. “We are extremely disappointed with and surprised by this decision,” he wrote. The Yukon chapter of the Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society has warned that roads such as the one ATAC Resources’ proposed can fragment wildlife habitat, interrupt migratory patterns and lead to an increase in mining activity and hunting pressure. The Beaver River watershed, northeast of Mayo, is a vast expanse of relatively intact wilderness that’s home to moose, grizzly bears and wolves. According to the Yukon government’s decision document, ATAC Resources’ plan for the road didn’t adequately consider cumulative effects on the region’s ecosystem — particularly on wildlife. Todd Powell, director of mineral resources at the Yukon Department of Energy, Mines and Resources, told The Narwhal the company did not review wildlife impacts “in a meaningful way.” “The bigger the project, the bigger the effects are. In this case, a road into an area like that was going to have fairly significant effects.” The company’s plan to mitigate effects on wildlife “simply didn’t go far enough,” he said. According to ATAC Resources’ draft management plan, mitigation efforts included building the road in the Rankin Creek valley, where fewer wildlife are present, reducing or suspending traffic during calving and rutting and making the route private to prevent hunting. The company also said it would conduct road patrols to further deter hunting. The decision document notes there were baseline data “deficiencies” that would have affected environmental monitoring efforts. In its draft management plan, ATAC noted Lebarge Environmental Services conducted eight aerial and three ground surveys of wildlife between 2010 and 2013 that noted the project area is home to species that are considered of “special concern” by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada including woodland caribou, grizzly bear, wolverine, collared pika, horned grebe, rusty blackbird, peregrine falcon and dolly varden. Threatened species that are found in the project area, according to ATAC, include the common nighthawk and the olive-sided flycatcher. Without adequate monitoring, Powell said there was little hope potential impacts could be mitigated in the future, which contributed to the Yukon government pulling the plug on the project. The Beaver River watershed is largely roadless and the ATAC road would have set a new “precedent” for mineral exploration in the territory, the document states. No roads longer than 50 kilometres have been built for operations that, like ATAC Resources’, are purely exploratory over the past decade, the document notes. “Far more typically, existing access routes and new access routes have only been upgraded or constructed once mine development and production has been authorized.” ATAC Resources is not currently operating any mines in the region and is not permitted to. The company is only permitted to conduct exploratory work until 2024, which raised questions about the need for the access road and concerns the company wouldn’t have long enough to successfully build and decommission the road as proposed. “The nearness of the expiration date doesn’t suggest that they would have a reasonable timeframe to get all of that work done,” Powell said. A sub-regional land use plan for the Beaver River watershed was recently launched by the Yukon government and the Na-Cho Nyäk Dun First Nation. Work on the plan is set to continue, regardless of the ATAC road cancellation, Powell said. “Everybody recognizes that this is a highly mineralized area with lots of potential,” he said. “The commitment remains in place to finalize [the land use plan] as soon as we can.” Randi Newton, conservation manager with CPAWS Yukon, recently told The Narwhal she hopes that the sub-regional land use plan will be replaced with a much broader plan that encapsulates the entire Beaver River watershed. CPAWS recently released a report that cautioned the Yukon Environmental and Socio-economic Assessment Board against approving road projects before land use plans are completed. “Land use planning can take that broader view of how much development is allowable in an area, which areas should we keep remote and free of roads,” Malkolm Boothroyd, the report’s author and campaigns co-ordinator at the Yukon chapter of CPAWS, told The Narwhal in a previous interview. Powell said that while the sub-regional land use plan won’t be scrapped, it could help inform a region-wide plan in the future, so the intention now is to finish what has already been started. Lewis Rifkind, mining analyst at the Yukon Conservation Society, told The Narwhal his organization has been highlighting concerns associated with the ATAC road since its inception. While he questions why it took the Yukon government so long to cancel the project, he’s hopeful environmental protection is coming to the region through land use planning. “It does give us a chance to protect or manage a pretty large-scale landscape,” he said. “Now we can do the planning without having the road dictate certain land uses.”Julien Gignac, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Narwhal 22 hours ago The Canadian Press Daddy Yankee achieves new balance, readies for his comeback NEW YORK — A year after a series of concerts in Puerto Rico that ended up being his last because of the pandemic, Daddy Yankee is bringing those performances to YouTube as a Christmas gift to his fans around the globe.“DY2K20,” the digital version of his show “Con Calma Pal’ Choli,” will be released in three parts on Yankee's YouTube channel, with the first installment out Friday. The others will drop on Dec. 14 and Dec. 21, respectively.“I wanted to give a Christmas present to all my fans during the pandemic, bring the party to their homes free of charge, bring them joy in such difficult times,” the reggaeton star told The Associated Press in a phone interview from Miami.Yankee, who has stayed mostly out of the spotlight in 2020, said that while the pandemic has hit many very hard, it has also allowed him to do something he hadn't done in three decades: Focus on his health and rest.It's something he had to gradually learn after gaining 40 pounds (almost 20 kilos) during the first months of quarantine.“Maybe because of the anxiety... I started eating and eating and eating and I put on the pounds like never before. I got to weigh 230 pounds (105 kilos) ... But I recovered my normal weight from 10 years ago. That was my focus,” said the “Despacito” and “Gasolina” singer, adding he achieved his goal by watching what he ate and exercising, a lot.“I devoted myself to my health and to something that was unknown to me, which was rest,” he said. “I started to learn how to live with calmness and to appreciate it... And I feel different, I feel in a new phase completely.”Now that he gained some balance in his life, he feels ready to reactivate his career. In addition to “DY2K20,” he has another surprise for his fans: A new music collaboration he will release in the coming days, although he wouldn't provide details yet.For now, he said he was blessed to finally share with the world the footage of a show staged at the Coliseo de Puerto Rico José Miguel Agrelot, which involved over 80 people who worked with “great passion, great creativity.” It was well-received, going from two scheduled dates to a full residence, with 12 sold-out shows, or 170,000 tickets.What many don't know is that a technical problem on opening night resulted in a new business opportunity: Massive concerts in the daylight hours, something never seen before on the island.After getting stuck on a platform over the stage, Yankee announced to the audience that he would give them an extra show for free, and it was a matinee. He adjusted the content to make it family friendly, and ended up doing one more that way.Another unique aspect of “Con Calma Pal’ Choli,” which featured artists like Ozuna, Wisin & Yandel and Nicky Jam, was the use of holograms to replace those who weren't there to perform live.“I wanted the artists to be gigantic, on people's faces, so the audience could feel that they were in front of them and we achieved that,” Yankee said. “It was a concert that became a residence, like if Las Vegas had moved to Puerto Rico.”___Follow Sigal Ratner-Arias on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sigalratner.Sigal Ratner-Arias, The Associated Press 23 hours ago CBC Montrealers, please don't have large Christmas gatherings up north, urges Laurentians mayor The mayor of a popular tourist town just north of Montreal has a message for residents in nearby red zones: do not flock to the Laurentians to organize large gatherings for Christmas.Much of the Laurentians region is designated as an orange zone, and Morin-Heights Mayor Tim Watchorn wants it to stay that way."If the cases start going up and spreading because people don't respect the rules and don't stay in the red zones, then all our businesses will be closed, our cases are going to spike and we'll end up in a red zone also," Watchorn told CBC Montreal's Daybreak.On Thursday, the province's premier announced Christmas gatherings in red zones would be banned. Two gatherings of up to 10 people are still allowed in yellow zones. People in orange zones can get together in groups of six.As recently as three weeks ago, sensing that more and more visitors from other regions were popping up, mayors in the Laurentians asked the Quebec government to put in police checkpoints in the area. François Legault denied the request, and on Thursday, he shot down the idea once again."I think the key will be to make sure people respect the rules in stores, in homes" said Legault. "I think it's more important that we put police efforts in these directions than putting efforts on controlling the travelling between regions."If people do decide to head to the Laurentians for Christmas, the executive director of Mont-Tremblant's tourism board says the least they can do is stay with people from their households, and avoid going to indoor public places."We'd like to remind that they have to stay together with the same address," said Daniel Blier. "They cannot gather with other people. They cannot go to bars or restaurants, except for takeout."Watchorn says he doesn't mind people travelling to the Laurentians for outdoor activities. It's the indoor gatherings that worry him, as well as what he considers to be a lack of willingness by the province to enforce public health guidelines.He is encouraging Montrealers and others with properties up north to visit during the holidays, but is urging them to respect the rules."Spend Christmas up here, it's beautiful," he said. "Go cross-country skiing, go fat biking, do what you have to do but just don't do huge gatherings. We don't need our health-care workers up here and in Montreal to suffer through the next couple months because we didn't respect the rules."WATCH | Dr. Cécile Tremblay on the positives of a scaled down Christmas: 23 hours ago Ad•Yahoo FeelGood Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdTake Time to Stop and Smile Brighten your day with the content from Yahoo FeelGood The Canadian Press Montenegro's parliament approves new, pro-Serb government PODGORICA, Montenegro — Montenegro’s parliament on Friday voted to approve a new conservative, pro-Serb coalition government, which will succeed a pro-Western party that has ruled the small Balkan nation for almost three decades.Prime Minister Zdravko Krivokapic' cabinet is dominated by unelected technocrats, and its approval follows more than three months of negotiations with coalition partners after their narrow victory in August parliamentary elections.Lawmakers in the 81-seat parliament voted 41-28 Friday for the new government, with 12 abstentions.Krivokapic is a 62-year-old former university professor and political novice. His coalition was formed with the main goal of unseating the long-ruling DPS party of Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic, whom it accuses of rampant corruption, links with organized crime, and “dictatorship.”Djukanovic and his government defied neighbouring Serbia and its ally Russia to join NATO in 2017, and have brought the country of some 620,000 people to the threshold of the European Union.Krivokapic has promised to abide by NATO membership obligations and to work on speeding up EU accession, despite demands from his own coalition for closer ties with Slavic allies Serbia and Russia.The new prime minister has said his cabinet’s priorities will be to fight the coronavirus, bring the country out of a deep economic crisis triggered by the pandemic, and ensure what he called the “real rule of law.”He also pledged good relations with Serbia and other neighbours, and promised to work on creating conditions for holding what he called the “first fair democratic elections” in Montenegro.Krivokapic is considered close to the Serbian Orthodox Church which led months of protests in Montenegro against a law passed by the previous government that the church said would impound its property in Montenegro. The former government rejected those claims.Although they pledged to vote for the new government, the coalition officials criticized Krivokapic’s choice of government ministers and his position that Montenegro should continue on its pro-Western course. They said politicians, instead of technocrats, should lead the new government.“If everything will remain the same, we shouldn’t have taken part in the election,” said Milan Knezevic, a leader of the largest pro-Serb group in the new governing coalition.Serbia and Montenegro were part of the same country before an independence referendum in 2006 led to Montenegro splitting away.Montenegro remains deeply divided among those seeking closer ties with Serbia and Russia and those who view Montenegro as an independent state allied with the West. Serbs represent about 30% of its population.Predrag Milic, The Associated Press 21 hours ago CBC Common-law spouse among 3 charged with giving N.S. shooter ammunition The common-law spouse of the man responsible for killing 22 people in April's mass shooting in Nova Scotia has been charged with providing the gunman with ammunition he used during the rampage, but police say she and two relatives who are also charged did not know how it would be used. Lisa Diana Banfield, 52, of Dartmouth is alleged to have unlawfully transferred .223-calibre Remington cartridges and .40-calibre Smith & Wesson cartridges between March 17 and April 18, 2020. James Blair Banfield, 64, of Beaver Bank, N.S., and Brian Brewster, 60, of Lucasville, N.S., are also facing the same charge under Section 101 of the Criminal Code.RCMP would not comment on the relationship between Lisa Banfield and the two men. CBC News has learned the men are the older brother and brother-in-law of Lisa Banfield. RCMP said in a news release Friday that the three had "no prior knowledge of the gunman's actions on April 18 and 19." That weekend, Gabriel Wortman killed 22 neighbours, acquaintances and strangers in several communities in rural Nova Scotia while masquerading as an RCMP officer.He torched his own cottage and garage, and three other homes over a 13-hour period before being shot dead by police at a gas station in Enfield, N.S., after a lengthy search.RCMP say the ammunition was purchased in Nova Scotia.On Friday, Lisa Banfield's lawyer declined to comment on the charge. History of domestic violenceBanfield is suing Wortman's estate, which was initially valued at more than $1.2 million. In her statement of claim, which was filed with the Nova Scotia Supreme Court, she said she was the victim of an assault and battery, and she suffered physical, emotional and psychological injuries and trauma. In June, she also renounced her right to be the executor of his will. There is a separate proposed class-action lawsuit against the gunman's estate that alleges it is liable to the families of the victims who lost their lives or those who were injured due to his actions.Several people told investigators that the gunman had a history of violence and was abusive, according to search warrant documents. A woman who used to live in Portapique said in 2013 she reported to RCMP that the denturist had illegal weapons and had tried to strangle Banfield.Brenda Forbes said she's never heard what happened to her complaint. But she said RCMP officers told her at the time that since she didn't have photos of the weapons and Banfield had not lodged a complaint, they were limited in what they could do. The day the rampage started, Wortman and Banfield were celebrating their anniversary, according to the court documents. The couple worked together and lived above Wortman's denture clinic on Portland Street in Dartmouth and spent time at the cottage they shared in Portapique. Banfield has never spoken publicly about what happened in April.RCMP have said the violence started when the gunman attacked and restrained her. She escaped and later told investigators she initially hid in a truck before spending hours in a wooded area in Portapique before knocking on a neighbour's door around 6 a.m., according to a summary of interviews she gave RCMP.All three accused are scheduled to be arraigned in Dartmouth provincial court on Jan. 27.Illegal weapons usedInvestigators have previously said they don't believe the gunman had a firearms licence.Police have never released the exact type of weapons Wortman used in the rampage, but they've said he obtained pistols and rifles illegally. Three came from the U.S. and one came from the estate of someone he knew in Canada.Through an access-to-information request, The National Post learned Wortman used two semi-automatic rifles and two pistols in the rampage. The details were revealed in briefing notes to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Wortman also took the service pistol belonging to Const. Heidi Stevenson, who he killed in Shubenacadie.On Friday, RCMP declined to answer questions about the charges, the first laid in relation to the mass shootings."To ensure a fair trial for those who have been charged and with the public inquiry now ongoing, the most appropriate and unbiased opportunity to provide any additional information is to do so with our full participation in the inquiry," said Supt. Darren Campbell in a statement. The final report from a public inquiry is expected in November 2022. Charges a 'relief' for familiesLawyer Robert Pineo, who is representing the families of the victims, said they are "relieved" about the charges."They've felt throughout that this was a major piece of the puzzle that was missing. Through circumstantial evidence and some information from the community, [they] have felt there was some involvement beyond the killer himself," said Pineo. "So this information has helped put their minds at ease, to a point."His clients are involved in two class-action lawsuits: one against the killer's estate, and one against the province and the RCMP for the police response during the tragedy.Pineo said his clients feel like the RCMP haven't been "open at all" throughout their investigation."There has been sporadic communication with the families, but usually nothing of substance, as far as who's being investigated, what avenues are being investigated — even information about their own deceased family members has been lacking," he said. "So the more information that comes forward, the more relief they feel."Michael Arntfield, a criminologist at Western University in London, Ont., agreed there has been little information provided throughout the investigation."That's their prerogative, but [the new charges] provides some reassurance that investigation now has been confirmed to have been underway behind the scenes, and that people who aided and abetted Mr. Wortman will have to answer to that," he said.Arntfield suspects more charges could be laid. He said there are still many unanswered questions about things like the gunman's mocked-up police vehicle and how he was able to obtain his illegal weapons."These latest charges show that Wortman was not a one-man operation and he relied on accessories," Arntfield said. "There's just too many moving parts for him to have pulled this off unassisted."He said the decision to charge the gunman's common-law spouse is "going to be fraught with problems."On one hand, he said it's clear that Banfield had knowledge of Wortman's weapons and police regalia, but on the other, "you have a documented victim of domestic violence who, obviously, wouldn't feel safe necessarily disclosing this to the police.""Her role as a stakeholder was identified by the police as only a victim, and now it seems there's been an about-face on that," said Arntfield. "So, what we're missing is the pieces in between that would confirm why that change was deemed necessary." 22 hours ago The Canadian Press Here's a quick glance at unemployment rates for November, by province OTTAWA — Canada's national unemployment rate was 8.5 per cent in November. Here are the jobless rates last month by province (numbers from the previous month in brackets):— Newfoundland and Labrador 12.2 per cent (12.8)— Prince Edward Island 10.2 per cent (10.0)— Nova Scotia 6.4 per cent (8.7)— New Brunswick 9.6 per cent (10.1)— Quebec 7.2 per cent (7.7)— Ontario 9.1 per cent (9.6)— Manitoba 7.4 per cent (7.1)— Saskatchewan 6.9 per cent (6.4)— Alberta 11.1 per cent (10.7)— British Columbia 7.1 per cent (8.0)This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4, 2020 and was generated automatically.The Canadian Press a day ago Ad•Wakefit Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdSpecial Price Discounts on Wakefit Mattresses! 30% off on memory foam Wakefit mattresses. Use code 'SALARYDAY' & get special price discounts. 10yr warranty & removable zipper covers for easy wash. Rumble Funny pet ferret wildly plays with a rubber glove Ferrets are very fond of all kinds of rubber stuff, especially when it's light, flies and rustles. See for yourself! 22 hours ago The Canadian Press Chris Finch, Jama Mahlalela join Nick Nurse's Toronto Raptors staff as assistants TORONTO — The Toronto Raptors have hired former New Orleans Pelicans associate head coach Chris Finch and ex-Raptors 905 head coach Jama Mahlalela as assistant coaches for Nick Nurse's staff. Raptors assistant coach Patrick Mutumbo will take over as coach of Raptors 905, a G League team.Raptors assistants Brittni Donaldson and John Bennett also will join the Raptors 905 staff.Finch spent the past three years in New Orleans. Previously, he was an assistant coach with Denver (2016-17) and Houston (2011-16).Prior to his time in the NBA, Finch guided Rio Grande to two consecutive appearances in the G League final, including a championship in 2010.Finch also was head coach of the British men's national team at the 2012 Olympics, with Nurse serving as one of his assistants.Mahlalela was an assistant coach with the Raptors for five seasons (2014-18) prior to becoming head coach for Raptors 905 the past two year. A native of Swaziland, Mahlalela grew up in the Greater Toronto Area.The Raptors open training camp this weekend in Tampa, Fla. This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 3, 2020.The Canadian Press 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative TBM to become founding partner in national climate-change group A new program that looks to connect Canada’s resort communities in an effort to tackle climate change has called on the Town of the Blue Mountains (TBM) to become a founding partner. “We believe our love of adventure in nature demands our participation in the fight to save and protect it,” said David Erb, executive director of Protect Our Winters Canada (POW). “We're a not-for-profit organization that's really focused on aligning the outdoor industry, which includes everyday enthusiasts like myself and, and others that might visit Blue Mountain to ski or hike, professional athletes and industry brands,” he explained during a recent deputation to TBM council. POW focuses its efforts on organizing, educating and equipping businesses, social influencers and the general population to advocate for systemic policy solutions to climate change. In recent months, POW has been approaching municipalities across Canada that rely on adventure tourism in an effort to seek out partnerships for collaboration on an inter-municipal climate awareness plan. Prior to approaching TBM, POW also invited the municipality of Whistler, the Town of Banff, the municipality of Jasper, Ville de Mont Tremblant, the University of Waterloo, interdisciplinary Centre for Climate Change and Hot Planet Cool Athletes Canada, to also become founding members. “The fact that we've been identified and have been invited into this group — you'll note that we're the only Ontario municipality — so I definitely think we have to put our commitment behind this and we can't just be their name, we've got to be there in actual action as well,” said TBM Coun. Andrea Matrosovs. “So much can be learned from each other, both across Canada, and the world. I was quite impressed when I did research on POW that this isn't just Canada, but it's a worldwide network,” she continued. The program strives to assist its partner municipalities in developing a Climate Action Plan blueprint by providing projections on impacts, assessment on local and tourist related CO2 emissions and identifying strategies, best practices, technology efficiencies, and engagement strategies. “We aim to increase the resilience and future viability of Canada’s adventure tourism sector by evaluating climate-change risks, developing strategies to decarbonize ski and adventure tourism destinations, and transition resort communities on climate resilient pathways,” Erb explained. POW also plans to create a Resort Municipality Climate Coalition (RMCC), which will leverage the collective experience of Canada’s resort communities to create a forum to exchange information, ideas, successes and challenges. “The intention behind this RMCC is that we can bring together other resort municipalities from across the country, no matter what stage they're at in their climate planning, and create a community where we can really forward each other's efforts,” Erb said. The program will be based out of the University of Waterloo, and is also backed by the Climate Caucus, a non-partisan network of 250-plus elected local leaders working collectively to create and implement equitable policy, which aligns with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services science. Erb adds there is no direct cost to partner municipalities for the first year of the program, as POW is currently in the process of acquiring funding through Canadian Climate Action and Awareness Fund. In the second year of the program, POW will be asking founding partners to make a $50,000 annual contribution for two years. According to Erb, the funds can be allocated directly, indirectly or in-kind. For example, wages for staff working on climate planning or allocation of consultant fees would be considered as indirect contributions. “There's no cost to doing this. It's essentially a working committee that will come together and resource one another,” he said. “However, that would likely lead to part two, which is a commitment for in-kind matching funds. And, that can be a very flexible ask, it doesn't need to be new dollars, we just need to have the ability to point to dollars in your budget that are being allocated toward climate planning.” According to Jeffery Fletcher, manager of solid waste and environmental initiatives for TBM, the town has already begun work in some of these areas through such sub-committees, such as the sustainability advisory committee. “This is a great opportunity for the town to take advantage of some great academia and influential groups like the Climate Caucus. As well as all the other resorts that are involved. Together we can gain some real momentum,” Fletcher said. Erb adds that the threat of climate change is a stark reality for the outdoor tourism industry, pointing to the impact the climate crisis is having on the length of the winter season. “As you may know, ski operators have a magical number of 100 days. If they can operate for 100 days in a winter, that's generally their break-even point and anything above that is a surplus,” Erb said. “But, as soon as they dip below 100 days, it's really questionable if they're able to sustain their overall operations.” “A major engine of our economy is Blue Mountain Resort and the other resorts that operate in the area, not to mention the rest of the outdoor winter activities that happens here and some of our smaller tour operators. It's a big part of economic sustainability, but it's also apart of our social sustainability as well,” Matrosovs added. Following the deputation from Erb, TBM council moved a motion to join the RMCC as a founding member and also directed staff to provide a follow-up report regarding the request for a commitment to allocate in-kind matching funds to the program once federal funding is in place. “This is an important opportunity for us, whatever noise we can make will be amplified greatly by being part of an organization like this,” added TBM Deputy Mayor Rob Potter. Jennifer Golletz, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, CollingwoodToday.ca 23 hours ago Ad•Amazon India Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdAmazon Wardrobe Refresh Sale Stay #HarPalFashionable with up to 70% off on all your favorite brands. Are you ready? The Canadian Press Trudeau stresses digital tech's potential — and dangers — at global AI summit MONTREAL — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau kicked off the inaugural meeting of a global council on artificial intelligence by warning of the danger of unbridled digital technology, despite its potential to change the world for the better.The virtual summit marks the latest step in the slow march toward international co-operation on digital governance amid growing concerns over data privacy, built-in bias and deployment in war.Canada first set out on that path two years ago, unveiling plans with France for a standing AI forum during a meeting of G7 countries in Quebec.Since then, 13 other states have signed on to the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence to guide policy development with an eye to human rights, establishing expert panels and involving government, industry and academia.Speaking ahead of French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday, Trudeau said AI has the potential to combat diseases and climate change, but also to "create new challenges if left unchecked."Last month, the Liberal government tabled legislation to give Canadians more control over their information in the digital age, with potentially stiff fines for companies that flout the rules.This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4, 2020.The Canadian Press 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative GNWT opens nominations for Minister's Culture and Heritage Awards Nominations are open to recognize individuals in the territory who “work to strengthen the arts, culture, heritage and languages of the N.W.T.” The Minister’s Culture and Heritage Awards celebrate “outstanding leadership in the North” and raise awareness about the importance of protecting, preserving and celebrating the different cultures and unique ways of life in the territory. There are five categories: According to the GNWT's website, a Minister's Choice Award will also be handed out this year at the discretion of RJ Simpson, the minister. Awards will be given to winners virtually this year, due to COVID-19. Northerners looking to nominate a peer must submit the necessary form by January 8, 2021.Sarah Sibley, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Cabin Radio 23 hours ago CBC UBC, SFU, Capilano University extend winter breaks for a week The University of British Columbia, Simon Fraser University and Capilano University have announced they are extending their upcoming winter breaks, so students and staff can better prepare for another term under pandemic restrictions.Students at all three schools will now be returning to class on Jan. 11 instead of Jan. 4. UBC said the change applies to both its Vancouver and Okanagan campuses."As many of you have noted, there have been extraordinary pressures on our students, faculty and staff this year due to COVID-19," UBC president Santa J. Ono wrote in the notice."The hope is that by allowing a delayed start to classes, we can help our students, faculty and staff to better prepare for Winter Session Term 2."Post-secondary institutions around the world have spent the term adjusting to remote learning, with both students and faculty becoming all too familiar with the challenges of distanced education — from misunderstood assignments to allegations of cheating on virtual exams.SFU and Capilano University said both groups need the extended break."We recognize everyone is tired as we deal with the changes this pandemic has brought to how we teach and how our students learn," wrote SFU vice-president, academic and provost Catherine Dauvergne."This one-week delayed start provides faculty with additional time to prepare for the beginning of the new term in a remote, adapted model," said the statement from Capilano. "Students will have a longer break between terms to rejuvenate, and more time to prepare for classes."Capilano said the delayed start means the spring term will end on April 16 instead of April 9. SFU said the start of classes in the summer term will also be delayed by about a week.UBC did not specify when its spring term will finish, but said exams will still be written no later than April.As for elementary and high schools in B.C., the Ministry of Health has not announced plans to extend the winter break — but the option is not off the table."It's incredibly important for families and for children to have in-person, in-class [education], but we're looking at all of our options,'' Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry told reporters on Nov. 16. 22 hours ago Ad•ICICI Lombard Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdNo Room Rent Cap - ICICI Lombard CHI Protect your savings from expensive medical bills. Local Journalism Initiative Man makes most of horrific accident Dale Woodard Lethbridge Herald John Wayne Yakimyshyn has spent his entire life around horses. But a mishap with one set the longtime Hollywood horse trainer on a different career path and one that he hopes will assist people as well. After a horrific accident with a horse a little over three years ago that nearly left him paralyzed, Yakimyshyn has gone from trainer to businessman, designing the Giddyupz, an attachment that goes on the grab handle in trucks, jeeps, semis, and other off-road vehicles to help assist people in and out of the vehicle. “You can put this on the back of a seat rail for the backseat passenger so they can hold on,” said Yakimyshyn. Now back in Lethbridge for the past two months, Yakimyshyn is unveiling his patented item. “I picked Lethbridge not only because I lived here 20 years ago, but it’s kind of cowboy country,” said Yakimyshyn. “I thought with my background, the horses and the word Giddyupz, it’s also a good retirement community, so I figured a lot of people would need this.” Yakimyshyn’s path to horse training started as a youngster on a road trip from his hometown of Vegreville to Calgary. “In 1963 Roy Rogers and Dale Evans were in Calgary at the Stampede as the marshals,” said Yakimyshyn. “I remember sitting on the side of the road watching Roy Rogers and my parents explained to me who Roy Rogers was. I told them at that time, at five years old, ‘I can do that,’ when they explained what Trigger (Roger’s Palomino horse) did.” Growing up in Vegreville, horses were always a part of Yakimyshyn’s upbringing. “We had a machinery dealership and a Dodge dealership and my parents always had a couple of farms,” he said. “We worked on the farms and every weekend my brothers and I would pretend we were playing “Bonanza.” We had all the little horses and we would ride together in the fields and that’s how it started.” In the early-1970s, Yakimyshyn started training horses on his own. The paid off in 1984 when he headed to California to work with noted trainer Glen Randall. “One day I found an article with Glen Randall,” said Yakimyshyn. “I called him from home in Vegreville and he said ‘You know what, son? You bring me $6,000 cash and come and train with me.’ That was a lot of money back then. He didn’t know me from nothing, just some guy calling him on the phone. So I loaded up two horses, took $6,000 in cash and I went all the way down to Hollywood and I started working with him.” Arriving in his big Dodge van that he slept in, Yakimyshyn started work the moment he drove into the yard. “We were training Andalusian horses for some San Diego bullfights,” he said. “This was for movies, so nobody was getting hurt. But we had to teach the horses to pretend they’re going into a bullfight and dance sideways. It’s all trick stuff, nobody got hurt. I was the only one who got hurt in 60-something years.” Yakimyshyn and Randall also worked with Black Stallion horses from Francis Ford Coppola movies. “I knew a lot because I was self-taught, but I learned a lot from him.” Yakimyshyn also worked with actor David Hasselhoff on an episode of “Knight Rider” in 1985. “I worked on the set and it was called ‘Knight By A Nose,’” said Yakimyshyn. “You’ll see a few black horses running around and I was dressed up as an Arab sheik. The horse was supposed to fight me and fight him and run away. But we had two horses on the set. So one was like a pussycat and the other was a fighting horse. So you had to teach them to pretend to fight.” Yakimyshyn continued to work off and on as a Hollywood trainer. “Anytime they needed you, you went there. There was some stuff shot in Vancouver and a little bit was done in Alberta,” he said. Then came the accident on Oct. 12, 2017 that put Yakimyshyn on a different career path. “I’ll never forget it, 11 in the morning,” he said. “They brought a new horse onto the set. I had been training and getting horses ready for the new season for the week and all the horses were fine. I was teaching them to drop their heads and smile and do all kinds of cute things.” A new Palomino was brought onto the set. “They said they were using him,” said Yakimyshyn. “I asked if he was broke for cameras and (was told) ‘No problem, he’s broken.’ So I get on him and we used him on film for four hours.” Afterwards there was a break in the filming and Yakimyshyn went to feed the Palomino some grain. “As I’m walking back, I’m probably three feet away from the movie star,” he said. “We’re talking and I have a loose rein. I was in an RCMP saddle from the early 1900s, which means the horn is very high and the back is very high and it’s all made of steel. So when you sit in the saddle it grips your legs so they could fight with a sword or knife and not fall out of the saddle.” Suddenly, the horse started bucking. “I don’t what happened to the horse,” said Yakimyshyn. “He went nuts immediately, starting bucking, broke my front pelvis completely off, broke my back pelvis off my backbone, flipped over, cut me in half and knocked me out on the ground. I was knocked out while I was on the back of the horse. “So I woke up screaming, not crying, screaming. I had no idea where the horse was. I was told he was fine. He just went crazy for some reason.” An ambulance arrived on the scene inside of a half hour. “I lost half my blood and I couldn’t see my legs,” said Yakimyshyn. “I asked ‘Where are my legs?’ and they said they were pulled out of the sockets. Within a half inch I would have been paralyzed.” Yakimyshyn’s spine was crushed in the accident. “I have eight, six-inch bolts holding me together,” he said. Yakimyshyn spent time in a trauma centre and briefly in a senior’s home before taking up residence in a hotel room in Chilliwack. “I laid in bed, rolled into the washroom, walked by cane and wheelchair and it took me one year to walk again,” said Yakimyshyn, who still walks with a cane when he needs it. He also deals with nerve damage and arthritis. As he got his mobility back, the first prototypes of the Giddyupz starting taking shape. “How this happened with Giddyupz is a friend of mine had a brand new Ford pickup truck and he wanted to take me out for groceries when I was in a wheelchair,” said Yakimyshyn. “So I rolled up and I couldn’t reach the grab handle. He couldn’t help me because if you’re standing in the crease of a door you can’t lift somebody up with my weight – I’m 200 pounds — and safely put me in. So I said ‘I have to figure this out.’” And so, the first grab handles started taking shape. “I came up with the grab handle extender,” said Yakimyshyn. “It’s made of leather. But the nice thing is we graduated to synthetic with our name stamped in that can hold over 1,500 pounds. The leather one will hold hundreds of pounds, the synthetic one will hold 1,500 pounds without breaking.” To demonstrate strength of the Giddyupz, Yakimyshyn showed a photo of the grab handle extender lifting the front end of a 1,500-pound tractor. “It’s just a couple of bolts and some screws. This material is so strong we’re using it for different applications,” said Yakimyshyn, who has also invented the lasso and the stirrup to help the elderly get out of their chair or lift their legs up in cars. “It took me three years and over 7,000 hours and over $70,000 invested,” said Yakimyshyn. Given its name, the Giddyupz will follow a familiar theme. “It’s going to be all cowboy related,” said Yakimyshyn, who is two months into his business venture and was set up at the Christmas Market last weekend. “We’ve only been selling out of the factory so far to people I have contacted.” Some big names south of the border already own the Giddyupz. “Jay Leno called me on March 7 at 10 a.m. and he invited me to his place in Hollywood. I sent him four Giddyupz and he absolutely loves them,” said Yakimyshyn, adding Bob Lutz, former president of Chrysler and General Motors, Warren Buffett and even Donald Trump have used the Giddyupz. “So a lot of important people in the States already have this product.” A Giddyupz grab handle goes for $35. “It’s made in Alberta by an Albertan and it’s patented and trademarked,” said Yakimyshyn. For more information on The Giddyupz Corporation, visit their Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/GiddyupzCorporation2020 Follow @DWoodardHerald on TwitterDale Woodard, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Lethbridge Herald 21 hours ago CBC Windsor-Essex hospitals sound alarm over rising COVID-19 cases Three Windsor-Essex hospitals have issued a strong warning over the current surge in COVID-19 cases — and what could happen if the trend continues.In a joint statement, they pleaded with the public to continue to do their part to prevent the spread of the virus."The scenario that our Windsor-Essex region residents have seen on TV taking place in other jurisdictions around the world, where hospital resources are stretched beyond capacity, is showing signs of occurring in our area of the province," chief executives from Hôtel-Dieu Grace Healthcare, Windsor Regional Hospital and Erie Shores Healthcare said Friday.Recent COVID-19 outbreaks at Hôtel-Dieu Grace and Windsor Regional risk "significant reductions" in bed capacity, while use of beds is already above 100 per cent, they said."As hospital bed capacity deteriorates, clinical teams will have no option other than to cancel scheduled surgeries and other procedures to ensure we have bed space available for emergency and other urgent cases," they stated.There are currently 27 people in hospital with COVID-19 and seven in ICU, according to the Windsor-Essex County Public Health Unit (WECHU). "There is definitely a lot of pressure on the health-care system in the region and also across Southwestern Ontario, Dr. Wajid Ahmed, medical officer of health with WECHU, said Friday.The health unit announced 65 new cases on Friday, bringing the active case total to 424.21 outbreaks in Windsor-EssexDr. Ahmed said there's also record number of outbreaks in the region — 21 across workplaces, long-term care homes and other institutions."We have never had that many outbreaks, clearly indicating that we need to do more," Dr. Ahmed said.As of the most recent data, which Dr. Ahmed presented on Friday, Windsor's seven-day average test positivity rate is 4.3 per cent -- the fourth highest in the province behind Toronto, Peel and York regions.Analysis of the presence of the virus wastewater suggests rates of infection exceed the number of known cases, Ahmed said.Not moving to lockdown Despite the rising cases, the province did not announce a lockdown for Windsor-Essex on Friday, meaning the region remains in the red "control" zone of COVID-19 restrictions in place since Monday.Dr. Ahmed said earlier on Friday that he didn't anticipate a lockdown would be announced, though earlier in the week he said the region is at risk of heightened restrictions."We would like to see the results of us in the red zone first before we move on to any criteria at this time," he said.Snapshot of the pandemic in Windsor-EssexSince the pandemic started, 3,864 cases have been diagnosed in Windsor-Essex, 3,358 of which have been resolved.Eighty-two people have lost their lives to COVID-19, including 56 death in longterm care and retirement homes.Of the 65 cases announced across the region Friday , five are close contacts of a confirmed case, two were community acquired, 58 are still under investigation. Twenty-seven people are in hospital, with seven in the intensive care unit.There are 21 outbreaks in the community, including eight at workplaces. * Three in Leamington's agriculture sector. * One in Lakeshore's health care and social assistance sector. * One in a Leamington place of worship. * One in Leamington's finance and insurance sector. * One in Windsor's manufacturing sector. * One in Kingsville's manufacturing sectorTwo community outbreaks are still active: one at Victoria Manor Supportive Living in Windsor and another at Riverplace Residence in Windsor. There are three school outbreaks: Corpus Christi Catholic Middle School - Central Park Athletics Campus, Frank W. Begley Public School and W. J. Langlois Catholic Elementary School. The latter two schools have been closed for two weeks. Officials are working on a reopening plan for both schools.There are outbreaks at six long-term care and retirement homes: * Chartwell St. Clair Beach in Tecumseh with one resident case. * Village of Aspen Lake in Tecumseh with one staff case. * Leamington Mennonite in Leamington with two staff cases. * Chartwell Royal Oak Residence in Kingsville with two staff cases. * Riverside place in Windsor with 17 resident cases and three staff cases. * Iler Lodge in Essex with 18 resident cases and three staff cases. 22 hours ago CBC $3M Canada Games spending sparks questions for St. John's councillors In the wake of a pledge by the City of St. John's to spend $3 million to support a bid to host the Canada Summer Games in 2025, questions are being raised about that decision and whether such an event could be a success.On Monday, city councillors voted unanimously in favour of a plan that allots spending over three budget years starting in 2022.The agreement for future spending comes amid some sharp belt-tightening, with the Metrobus budget slashed by $800,000, and a proposal to increase sidewalk snow-clearing denied, as the city continues to struggle with both COVID-19 and financial problems that have been looming for years. That contrast has some people wondering about city hall's priorities. Ophelia Ravencroft, who recently ran in the Ward 2 byelection, has been vocal about increasing mobility services, like public transit and snow-free sidewalks. She said she isn't opposed to the Canada Games coming to St. John's, but says she's frustrated to see it approved so easily and quickly."We've had to fight so hard to get those things to the front of this conversation, to a legitimate position at all, but the minute an event like this comes up, automatically it's kind of, yes, we'll spend lots, we'll invest in this very heavily," she said Thursday."I think it shows we understand some things as being economic drivers and not others, and I think that's fundamentally flawed."Municipal politicians estimate the games could bring in $80 to $110 million to the St. John's region. Coun. Dave Lane called it "a smart investment.""When we look to a significant event that's going to pump money into the economy, into people's pockets, to support businesses and people's livelihoods, a small investment for such a huge gain is something we felt is important for us to do on behalf of residents and businesses in this city," Lane told CBC Radio's St. John's Morning Show.Ravencroft doesn't pick apart city hall's estimate that landing the games will be a boost to economy. But, she argues, the ability to ride the bus to work or shop instead of spending money on car insurance or taxis can also free up money to circulate within the city, and that needs to given equal weight."We can support economic drivers, but we should support all economic drivers," she said.An athletic reality checkThe city's $3 million is only a portion of what's required to run such a large-scale event. Looking to past Canada Games, the federal government can be expected to chip in about $40-million to implement the needed athletic infrastructure, said one expert, showing that what the city may pay out could end up only being a drop in the bucket compared to the return.Bas Kavanagh co-authored a report in 2014 to assess what was needed to host the games, and how best to prepare. As 2021 approaches, he said there's no way St. John's can meet those recommendations now."There's a difference between doing it, and doing it right," he said Friday.Kavanagh pointed to a laundry list of needed fixes: baseball and soccer pitches like the King George V Field need upgrades. The Swilers Rugby Club, the Newfoundland and Labrador Sports Centre and some Memorial University facilities require work, and rowing and cycling infrastructure also needs to be addressed.Along with physical buildings, his report recommended increasing supports to increase athlete performance. Ideas like a committee that monitors training programs and provides resources such as coaching skill upgrades, physiotherapists and massage therapists have not materialized.A lack of support translates into athletic standings, he said, leaving he province's athletes under-prepared for what may come in competition."We've been pretty pathetic performing at the Canada Games. And the opportunity to host, as the task force looked at it, would've been a good opportunity to get the athletes ready to compete and actually be competitive," Kavanagh said."But right now without those recommendations being followed, we wouldn't perform very well. And we wouldn't perform very well in 2025."Kavanagh said the province needs to act swiftly on that report from six years ago."Every day that we lose is going to impact performance in 2025," he said.Meanwhile, with the city's bid for the event now approved, the Canada Games Council will now review it. A public announcement of its decision is expected in February.Read more articles from CBC Newfoundland and Labrador 23 hours ago Ad•Morningstar Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. Ad2 Strategies To Get Out Of Debt Want to be loan free? Here is help on how to triumph in the battle with debt. Local Journalism Initiative Mobile addictions service van to address transportation, anonymity issues in Wellington County WELLINGTON COUNTY – A newly-announced mobile addictions services van in Wellington County aims to bridge healthcare gaps in rural areas of the county. Stonehenge Therapeutic Community recently got $900,000 in funding from Ontario Health to enhance their addiction services. Kristen Kerr, executive director of Stonehenge Therapeutic Community, said about a third of this is going toward a project to serve the needs of rural Wellington County residents who face substance use issues. They are expanding their Rapid Access Addiction Clinics (RAAC), where there is only one in Wellington County, with a mobile van that can address issues with transportation, a common gap in health services in the county. “These clinics offer specialized medical addiction services and that can be hard to access when you live in a rural community,” Kerr said. “Sometimes it can be quite a long geographic distance to get to a clinic that is stationary. We have four existing clinics but most of them are far from Harriston for example.” Kerr said another issue in rural areas when accessing addiction services relates to anonymity. The thought is In a smaller community, people who are using such services can be more easily identified by other residents. The van itself will act as a mobile medical clinic that is staffed with a nurse practitioner. “It will be able to go to more central or accessible locations so that folks from the rural areas can more easily access the clinic,” Kerr said. The nurse practitioner can provide medicine services, addictions counselling and referrals. Kerr said they are working out the fine details with their rural healthcare partners such as precisely where the van will go in the county and therefore couldn’t say exactly where it will be making stops. Some of the funding is also going toward enhancing supportive housing they have in Guelph for those who face substance-use issues and have some level of involvement in the justice system. Kerr said the van concept was created from feedback about barriers clients face in rural areas and they will continue to listen and learn how they can improve. “I think listening to those who need to access service and listening to the voice of people with lived experience is key to knowing what more we need to do,” Kerr said. Keegan Kozolanka, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, GuelphToday.com a day ago Reuters New EU-U.S. data transfer pact? Not any time soon, says EU privacy watchdog Companies hoping the EU and the new U.S. administration will soon strike a new transatlantic data transfer pact to replace one struck down by a court will probably have to wait months for any result, the head of the EU privacy watchdog said on Friday. Washington and Brussels have in recent years seen their data transfer accords, one known as the Safe Harbour and its successor the Privacy Shield, rejected by Europe's top court because of concerns about U.S. surveillance. Both pacts were challenged in a long-running dispute between Facebook and Austrian privacy activist Max Schrems who has campaigned about the risk of U.S. intelligence agencies accessing data on Europeans. 21 hours ago CBC Details emerge of violent prison assault involving Jimmy Melvin Jr. New details are emerging about a violent incident at a maximum security prison involving two convicts from Nova Scotia.The incident happened Sept. 26 at the Atlantic Institution in Renous, N.B., and involved Jimmy Melvin Jr. and Joshua Preeper.An interim publication ban imposed by a Nova Scotia judge has prevented some details of the incident from being reported.But, at a hearing Friday morning in Halifax, Melvin's lawyer agreed to narrow the scope of the ban to allow details to be released. Ray Kuszelewski now only objects to the broadcast of security video from the prison.Justice Peter Roskinski of the Nova Scotia Supreme Court has reserved his decision on if the video will be made public.N.B. RCMP still investigatingKuszewleski objected to the video being released because he expects Melvin to be charged in relation to the prison incident and broadcast of the video could prejudice his client's right to a fair trial. CBC News opposed the publication ban, leading to Friday's hearing. New Brunswick RCMP told CBC News last week that they are still investigating the confrontation and no charges have been laid.Part of CBC's objection to the publication ban is that without actual charges, or even a trial date, everything about this matter at this point is hypothetical.Nova Scotia Crown attorneys presented details of the confrontation to Rosinski as part of their attempt to have Melvin declared a dangerous offender and locked up indefinitely.Awaiting sentencingMelvin is awaiting sentencing for a conviction on a charge of attempted murder. The judge is expected to rule on that application early in the new year.At a hearing last month, prison staff testified about the events of Sept. 26.They told of how Melvin, Preeper and a third Nova Scotia convict, Morgan McNeil, were in a "rec yard" at the prison, which they described as an outdoor area surrounded by a chain-link fence, topped with razor wire.The guards said men are allowed into the yards for two hours a day for fresh air and exercise.The guards testified that Melvin allegedly attacked Preeper, knocking him to the ground. The guards said Melvin repeatedly stomped on Preeper's head and kicked his prone body before they were able to separate the two.One of the people who responded after the attack said Preeper was bleeding from the head, one of his eyes was swollen shut and he was breathing, but not responding.Serious injuriesA doctor who saw Preeper when he was taken to a nearby hospital said he had life-threatening injuries, including bleeding on the brain. Dr. Camille Haddad testified that Preeper was comatose and he wouldn't speculate on how long he would take to recover from the attack.The guards said Melvin and Preeper had been interacting at the prison for two weeks prior to this incident without any issues.Joshua Preeper and his brother, Dustan, are each serving life sentences for the murder of Melissa Dawn Peacock in 2011. The brothers admitted to stabbing the 20-year-old woman, then dousing her body in gasoline and setting it on fire.At a dangerous offender hearing last month, the Crown said Melvin has 25 separate convictions for offences dating back to 1995.MORE TOP STORIES 21 hours ago More Stories