World | News & Headlines - Yahoo News Canada Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Watch Live Ontario Premier Doug Ford updates on COVID-19 response world Politics The Canadian Press Bob Woodward to take on final days of Trump's presidency NEW YORK — Bob Woodward's next book finds him in the familiar world of documenting a presidency's ending. Woodward is teaming with Washington Post colleague Robert Costa on a book about the waning days of Donald Trump's administration and on the initial phase of Joe Biden's presidency. The book does not yet have a title or release date. In 1976, Woodward and then-fellow Washington Post reporter Carl Bernstein collaborated on the bestselling “The Final Days,” what was then an unusually detailed and devastating account of President Richard Nixon as he neared being forced out of office over the Watergate scandal the reporters helped break. Woodward already has written two bestsellers on Trump, “Fear” and “Rage.” For the new book, Woodward and Costa will have competition, from other Post reporters. Penguin Press announced Monday that Philip Rucker and Carol Leonnig, co-authors of the Trump book “A Very Stable Genius,” are writing about his last year in office and his loss to Biden. There is currently no title or release date. The Associated Press Ad ProctorsGallagher Learn The Principles of Prosperity Discover The Principles To Producing Wealth And Living The Life You Really Want… News The Canadian Press No visible progress yet on key day for final Brexit deal BRUSSELS — Leaders of Britain and the European Union held a high-stakes phone call Monday for the second time in 48 hours, as the two sides sent out gloomy signals about the chances of breaking an impasse and securing a post-Brexit trade deal before the current relationship winds down at the end of the month. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen started their phone call in the late afternoon to decide whether or not to pull the plug on talks — a decision that could cost hundreds of thousands of jobs on both sides and disrupt cross-Channel trade for years to come. They were also considering whether to continue and after 90 minutes of talks, the call was suspended, and it wasn't immediately clear if they would speak again. EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier had no news of a breakthrough when be briefed ambassadors of the 27 member states early Monday on the chances of a deal with London before the Dec. 31 deadline. Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said Barnier’s message was “very downbeat.” “I would say he is very gloomy, and obviously very cautious about the ability to make progress today,” Coveney told Irish broadcaster RTE. One official from an EU nation said “the difficulties persist" over the legal oversight of any trade deal and standards of fair play that the U.K. needs to meet to be able to export in the EU. On fisheries too, a lot of work remains, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were ongoing. Penny Mordaunt, a junior minister for Brexit planning, told lawmakers in the House of Commons that the “level playing field” — competition rules that Britain must agree to to gain access to the EU market — was the most difficult unresolved issue. “We are at a critical moment,” she said. Britain's pound currency fell more than 1% against the dollar to under $1.33 amid the uncertainty. Johnson's spokesman, Jamie Davies, declined to offer odds on a deal being struck. “I’m not going to put a percentage on it," he said. “We are prepared to negotiate for as long as we have time available if we think an agreement is still possible.” While the U.K. left the EU politically on Jan. 31, it remains within the bloc’s tariff-free single market and customs union through Dec. 31. Reaching a trade deal by then would ensure there are no tariffs and trade quotas on goods exported or imported by the two sides, although there would still be new costs and red tape. At his early morning meeting with EU ambassadors, Barnier faced some anxious member states that feared too much might have been yielded already to London. If talks continue after Monday, they will be closing in on an two-day EU summit starting Thursday, where German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron will be major players. Germany wants a deal partly because its massive car industry has always found a welcome export market in Britain. France — seen by Britain as the “bad cop” in trade negotiations — has taken the lead in demanding that U.K. companies must closely align themselves with EU rules and environmental and social standards if they still want to export to the lucrative market of 450 million people. The politically charged issue of fisheries also continues to play an outsized role. The EU has demanded widespread access to U.K. fishing grounds that historically have been open to foreign trawlers. Britain insists it must control its own waters, doling out quotas annually. While both Britain and the EU say they want a trade deal, trust and goodwill are strained after months of testy negotiations. In a further complication, Johnson’s government plans Monday to revive legislation that breaches the legally binding Brexit withdrawal agreement it struck with the EU last year. The U.K. government acknowledges that the Internal Market Bill breaks international law, and the legislation has been condemned by the EU, U.S. President-elect Joe Biden and scores of British lawmakers, including many from Johnson’s own Conservative Party. The House of Lords, Parliament’s upper chamber, removed the law-breaking clauses from the legislation last month, but Johnson’s government will try to reinsert them on Monday. Britain says the bill, which gives the government power to override parts of the withdrawal agreement relating to trade with Northern Ireland, is needed as an “insurance policy” to protect the flow of goods within the U.K. in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The EU sees it as an act of bad faith that could imperil Northern Ireland’s peace settlement. On Wednesday the U.K. plans to introduce a Taxation Bill that contains more measures along the same lines and would further irritate the EU. But the British government offered the bloc an olive branch on the issue, saying it would remove the lawbreaking clauses if a joint U.K.-EU committee on Northern Ireland found solutions in the coming days. It said talks in the committee, which continued Monday, had been constructive. EU member states have to unanimously support any post-Brexit trade deal and the agreement still needs to be voted on by the European parliament, procedures that would push any deal right up to the end-of-year deadline. Both sides would suffer economically from a failure to secure a trade deal, but most economists think the British economy would take a greater hit, at least in the short term, because the U.K. does almost half its trade with the bloc. ___ Jill Lawless reported from London. Samuel Petrequin contributed from Brussels. ___ Follow all AP stories about Brexit and British politics at https://apnews.com/Brexit Raf Casert And Jill Lawless, The Associated Press Business The Canadian Press Shuttered Met Opera to lock out stageghands NEW YORK — The shuttered Metropolitan Opera said it will lock out its stagehands in Local One of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees at midnight on Monday because it has been unable to negotiate wage cuts during the novel coronavirus pandemic. Met General Manager Peter Gelb said the company proposed 30% cuts, of which half would be restored when box office and core donations reach pre-pandemic benchmarks, as part of a five-year contract to replace the deal that expired July 31. Gelb estimated the Met has lost $154 million in revenue due to the pandemic. The Met stopped performances March 12 because of the pandemic and ended pay for Local One about two weeks later. Gelb said medical benefits continued for most Local One union members through the expiration of the collective bargaining agreement and that the union had been providing them since. There has been no progress in seven negotiating sessions, Gelb said. After at first hoping to resume performances on Dec. 31, the company cancelled its entire 2020-21 season in September. Gelb said construction needs to start soon on the five new productions for the 2021-22 season, which are to start technical rehearsals in August. “It takes months to build sets. With a lockout, it enables us to consider the possibilities of other options,” he said. “There are other construction shops in this country and around the world that are not union.” The Met says fulltime stagehands earned an average of $260,000 in 2019, including benefits. As part of an agreement with Local One, it would restore pay of up to $1,500 weekly to furloughed employees. Gelb hopes to reopen contracts with Local 802 of American Federation of Musicians, which represents the orchestra, and the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents the chorus. The deals with those unions expire next summer and the Met has had preliminary meetings with 802. Gelb said the guild has not committed to early talks. Local One president James J. Claffey Jr. did not respond to an email seeking comment. Ronald Blum, The Associated Press Politics The Canadian Press Trump lawyer Giuliani in hospital after positive virus test WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump says his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani has tested positive for the coronavirus, making him the latest in Trump's inner circle to contract the disease that is now surging across the U.S. Giuliani was exhibiting some symptoms and was admitted Sunday to Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington, according to a person familiar with the matter who was not authorized to speak publicly. The 76-year-old former New York mayor has travelled extensively to battleground states in an effort to help Trump subvert his election loss to Joe Biden. On numerous occasions he has met with officials for hours at a time without wearing a mask. Trump, who announced Giuliani's positive test in a Sunday afternoon tweet, wished him a speedy recovery. The president later told reporters he spoke with Giuliani on Monday. “Rudy’s doing very well," Trump said. “I just spoke to him. No temperature.” Giuliani did not respond to a request for comment, but on Sunday evening he retweeted Trump's announcement of his diagnosis. He also tweeted thanks to a conservative writer who had said he was praying for Giuliani. Giuliani on Thursday attended a hearing at the Georgia Capitol, where he went without a mask for several hours. Several state senators, all Republicans, also did not wear masks at the hearing. On Wednesday night, Giuliani was in Lansing, Michigan, to testify in a highly unusual 4 1/2-hour legislative hearing in which he pushed Republican lawmakers to ignore the certification of Biden’s Michigan victory and appoint electors for Trump. He did not wear a mask, nor did lawyer Jenna Ellis, who was sitting next to him. He asked one of his witnesses, a Detroit election worker, if she would be comfortable removing her mask, but legislators said they could hear her. Giuliani travelled on Monday to Phoenix, where he met with Republican legislators for an hourslong hearing in which he was maskless. The Arizona Republican Party tweeted a photo of Giuliani and several state GOP lawmakers standing shoulder-to-shoulder and maskless. The Arizona legislature announced Sunday, after Giuliani's diagnosis became public, that it would close for a week out of an abundance of caution "for recent cases and concerns relating to COVID-19.” The Trump campaign said in a statement that Giuliani tested negative twice before his visits to Arizona, Michigan and Georgia. Unidentified Trump team members who had close contact with Giuliani are in self-isolation. “The Mayor did not experience any symptoms or test positive for COVID-19 until more than 48 hours after his return,” according to the statement. “No legislators in any state or members of the press are on the contact tracing list, under current CDC Guidelines.” Giuliani also appeared maskless at a Nov. 25 hearing in Pennsylvania. And he did not quarantine after being near an infected person at a Nov. 19 news conference at the Republican National Committee’s headquarters. His son Andrew Giuliani, who is a White House aide, announced a day after the event that he had tested positive for the virus. Research shows that people who contract the virus may become infectious to others several days before they start to feel ill. Georgia state Sen. Jen Jordan, a Democrat who attended Thursday's hearing, expressed outrage after learning of Giuliani's diagnosis. “Little did I know that most credible death threat that I encountered last week was Trump’s own lawyer,” Jordan tweeted. “Giuliani — maskless, in packed hearing room for 7 hours. To say I am livid would be too kind.” Before the hearing, Giuliani and Michigan Republican Party Chairman Laura Cox — both maskless — did a virtual briefing for GOP activists. Giuliani made an appearance earlier Sunday on Fox News Channel's “Sunday Morning Futures” to speak about his legal challenges in several states on behalf of Trump. The diagnosis comes more than a month after Trump lost reelection and more than two months after Trump himself was stricken with the virus in early October. Since then, a flurry of administration officials and others in Trump's orbit have also been sickened, including White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development. The president's wife, Melania Trump, and teenage son, Barron Trump, have also been stricken. The extraordinary spread in Trump’s orbit underscores the cavalier approach the Republican president has taken to a virus that has now killed more than 282,000 people in the U.S. alone. Those infected also include the White House press secretary and advisers Hope Hicks and Stephen Miller, as well as Trump’s campaign manager and the chair of the Republican National Committee. Trump spent the waning days of his campaign trying to persuade the American public that the virus was receding, and he repeatedly claimed it would miraculously “disappear” after Nov. 3. Instead, the country is experiencing a record-breaking spike in infections. The president gave the mounting coronavirus death toll scant attention at a Saturday evening rally in Valdosta, Georgia, where he campaigned on behalf of Republican Sens. Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue ahead of next month's runoff election there. Most people who attended the outdoor rally did not wear masks. White House coronavirus task force co-ordinator Dr. Deborah Birx on Sunday offered tacit criticism of Trump’s attitude on the virus during an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Asked about Trump and other administration members flouting public health experts' warnings to avoid large gatherings and calls to wear masks, Birx replied that some leaders are “parroting” myths and called the pandemic “the worst event that this country will face.” “And I think our job is to constantly say those are myths, they are wrong and you can see the evidence-base,” Birx added. ___ Lemire reported from Wilmington, Delaware. Associated Press writers Zeke Miller in Washington, Ben Nadler in Atlanta and David Eggert in Lansing, Michigan, contributed reporting. Aamer Madhani And Jonathan Lemire, The Associated Press Thaltej Today33°18° Wed33°19° Thu33°18° Fri25°21° What to Read Next Canada's first shipment of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine could arrive as middle of December Yahoo News Canada Learn The Principles of Prosperity AdProctorsGallagher First Snow of Season Whitens Richmond, Virginia Storyful Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton Are 'Both Ready to Get Married,' Says Source People Matthew McConaughey calls out 'illiberal left' who 'absolutely condescend, patronize and are arrogant towards the other 50 percent' Yahoo Celebrity Take Time to Stop and Smile AdYahoo FeelGood Guy Loses Balance And Faceplants Into Snow While Skiing Down Mountain Jukin Media Trump ratchets up pace of executions before Biden inaugural Associated Press Armed Michiganders Gather Outside Secretary Of State's Home To Deny Voting Results HuffPost Cost of these hearing aids might surprise you AdHear.com Side effects from the COVID-19 vaccine means 'your body responded the way it's supposed to,' experts say USA TODAY Timelapses Show Three Days of Snowfall as Nor'easter Hits Maine Storyful Flames legend Jarome Iginla plays role of beleaguered motorist during Boston TV segment CBC How He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home AdRaging Bull Dua Lipa Rocks Flintstone Meets Fashion In Leather Palm Leaf Mini Dress Elle ‘He’s the president-elect, sir’: Fox’s Chris Wallace corrects Trump health secretary on Biden’s title The Independent World's smallest possum species spotted Reuters Videos Amazon Wardrobe Refresh Sale AdAmazon India Idris Elba Shows Off His Arm Muscles in Sydney, Plus Shia LaBeouf, Bella Hadid and More People Trump’s intelligence director says ‘we’ll see’ if there’s a Biden administration The Independent Giuliani Asks Woman To Remove Mask Days Before Virus Diagnosis In Resurfaced Clip HuffPost Looking for a Life Partner in Ahmedabad? AdShaadi.com Early Morning Snow Showers Charleston, West Virginia Storyful 'Getting great care': Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani hospitalized after testing positive for COVID-19 USA TODAY Almost Ready to Retire? Get Ready for a Huge CPP Change The Motley Fool Devdoot Food Bank Helps Feed The Poor. Help Them AdKetto ABC Host Slaps Down GOP Senator's Fraud Claim: 'Why Can't You Accept The Results?' HuffPost 'Fear Me!': Mantis Puts on Impressive Show With Its 'Startle Display' Storyful Jason Momoa surprises young fan battling cancer with 'Aquaman' trident: 'Danny was speechless' Yahoo Celebrity Celebrate Diwali Care Se Adwww.bajajallianz.com Ontario COVID-19 cases surge to new record at 1,925 incidents in a day Yahoo News Canada 60,000 koalas hit by Australia's 'black summer' Reuters Videos Selma Blair and Sarah Michelle Gellar take extra safety precautions while reenacting famous kiss Yahoo TV Go On A 4N/5D* Diwali Holiday AdClub Mahindra Different Ways Princess Diana Broke Royal Protocol Women's Health Judge Jeanine calls Bill Barr a ‘reptile’ as Trumpworld turns on his attorney general The Independent Anchorage Wildlife Enthusiast Spots Pair of Moose 'Sparring' Storyful ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance AdICICI Lombard HSBC's 0.99% Mortgage Rate Is A Canadian First, But You'll Need To Borrow Big HuffPost Canada Contractors working on Trump's border wall are pointlessly blowing up chunks of Arizona that they won't have time to actually build on, campaigners say Business Insider Trump and Giuliani’s star witness at Michigan hearing had been charged with obscenity The Independent Monthly Income for your loved ones AdHDFC Life Tennessee Goats Enjoy Christmas Movie Night and Popcorn Storyful The Dylan catalogue, a 60-year rock 'n' roll odyssey, is sold The Canadian Press MPG Sport's affordable activewear makes the perfect gift this holiday season: Shop our top picks Yahoo Canada Style Secure Before You Step Out! AdBajaj Allianz Jon Ossoff debated an empty podium and called Sen. David Perdue a 'coward' for skipping the debate a month before their Senate runoff Business Insider Timelapse Captures Nor'easter's Heavy Snowfall in Nashua, New Hampshire Storyful Students Struggling With Online Learning A ‘Wake Up Call’ For Universities HuffPost Canada Full Body Checkup: 62.31% Off [Limited Time] AdMediFee.com 'American Beauty' screenwriter reflects on how Kevin Spacey impacted film's legacy: 'I wonder if that movie would get made now' Yahoo Movies