Montenegro's parliament approves new, pro-Serb government HOME MAIL NEWS SPORTS FINANCE CELEBRITY STYLE MOVIES WEATHER ANSWERS MOBILE Yahoo News Search query Sign in Mail Sign in to view your mail News News Coronavirus Coronavirus Originals Originals Canada Canada World World Business Business Entertainment Entertainment Sports Sports Science & Tech Science & Tech Weather Weather More More The Canadian Press Montenegro's parliament approves new, pro-Serb government Read full article December 4, 2020, 11:07 p.m.·2 min read PODGORICA, Montenegro — Montenegro’s parliament on Friday voted to approve a new conservative, pro-Serb coalition government, which will succeed a pro-Western party that has ruled the small Balkan nation for almost three decades. Prime Minister Zdravko Krivokapic' cabinet is dominated by unelected technocrats, and its approval follows more than three months of negotiations with coalition partners after their narrow victory in August parliamentary elections. Lawmakers in the 81-seat parliament voted 41-28 Friday for the new government, with 12 abstentions. Krivokapic is a 62-year-old former university professor and political novice. His coalition was formed with the main goal of unseating the long-ruling DPS party of Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic, whom it accuses of rampant corruption, links with organized crime, and “dictatorship.” Djukanovic and his government defied neighbouring Serbia and its ally Russia to join NATO in 2017, and have brought the country of some 620,000 people to the threshold of the European Union. Krivokapic has promised to abide by NATO membership obligations and to work on speeding up EU accession, despite demands from his own coalition for closer ties with Slavic allies Serbia and Russia. The new prime minister has said his cabinet’s priorities will be to fight the coronavirus, bring the country out of a deep economic crisis triggered by the pandemic, and ensure what he called the “real rule of law.” He also pledged good relations with Serbia and other neighbours , and promised to work on creating conditions for holding what he called the “first fair democratic elections” in Montenegro. Krivokapic is considered close to the Serbian Orthodox Church which led months of protests in Montenegro against a law passed by the previous government that the church said would impound its property in Montenegro. The former government rejected those claims. Although they pledged to vote for the new government, the coalition officials criticized Krivokapic’s choice of government ministers and his position that Montenegro should continue on its pro-Western course. They said politicians, instead of technocrats, should lead the new government. Story continues “If everything will remain the same, we shouldn’t have taken part in the election,” said Milan Knezevic, a leader of the largest pro-Serb group in the new governing coalition. Serbia and Montenegro were part of the same country before an independence referendum in 2006 led to Montenegro splitting away. Montenegro remains deeply divided among those seeking closer ties with Serbia and Russia and those who view Montenegro as an independent state allied with the West. Serbs represent about 30% of its population. Predrag Milic, The Associated Press TRENDING 1. Supreme Court again asked to block Biden win in Pennsylvania 2. Georgia GOP seeks mail-in ballot changes after Biden's win 3. US intelligence director says China is top threat to America 4. Wisconsin high court declines to hear Trump election lawsuit 5. Two Grand Slam events added to curling bubble at Canada Olympic Park in Calgary Latest Stories Initiative de journalisme local Un nouvel outil pour les milieux de travail aux prises avec des situations de violence conjugale Trois organismes de la Côte-Nord ont procédé au lancement d'un nouvel outil qui permettra aux entreprises d'être plus en mesure de réagir face à une situation de violence conjugale en milieu de travail. Disponible en ligne, cette trousse permettra aux employeurs d'être mieux outillés face aux situations de violence conjugale qui peuvent affecter certains employés. Comme le mentionne Nadia Morissette du Centre Femmes aux 4 Vents, la violence conjugale n'a pas juste lieu au sein du domicile conjugal. Avec les moyens technologiques notamment, le harcèlement peut se poursuivre alors que la victime est à son lieu de travail. Mis en place par le Centre Femmes aux 4 Vents, le CAVAC Côte-Nord et la Maison des Femmes de Baie-Comeau , le site Web s'inspire d'actions pour prévenir la violence familiale à partir du milieu de travail ayant eu lieu dans d'autres provinces canadiennes. Les différents outils disponibles sur le site ont été réalisés par des ressources externes spécialisées œuvrant en violence conjugale. Pour Isabelle Fortin du CAVAC Côte-Nord, cette trousse va permettre aux employeurs d'avoir l'information nécessaire pour savoir comment réagir face à une situation de violence conjugale. Elle ajoute : « Si un employeur affiche clairement la politique contre la violence conjugale en milieu de travail, cela peut inciter une victime à aller chercher de l'aide.» Dans le combat contre la violence conjugale, le rôle des collègues est aussi important selon Hélène Millier de la Maison des Femmes de Baie-Comeau. Pour elle, les collègues de travail sont parfois capables de ressentir un malaise ou de percevoir des signes que quelque chose ne va pas chez une personne qui pourrait être victime de violence conjugale. Dans ces cas, la trousse pourrait permettre aux gens de savoir comment réagir. Les trois porte-parole rappellent que le but de cette trousse n'est pas de faire des employeurs des intervenants en violence conjugale, mais avant tout de bien les outiller face à ce type de situation. La trousse d'accompagnement a été réalisée grâce au soutien financier du ministère de la Justice. Les trois organisations documentent depuis une dizaine d'années la problématique de la violence conjugale sur la Côte-Nord. Pour illustrer la gravité du problème, Hélène Millier affirme qu'en 2015, la Côte-Nord était la région qui avait connu le plus haut taux d'infraction contre la personne commise dans un contexte conjugal selon les données de la Sécurité publique. Protection des travailleuses victimes de violence conjugale en milieu de travail Parallèlement au lancement de la trousse d'accompagnement, les trois organismes travaillent en collaboration avec le comité d'encadrement « Vers une politique de travail en violence conjugale » à faire reconnaître une obligation de protéger la travailleuse victime de violence conjugale en milieu de travail dans les lois du travail. D'ailleurs, le ministre du Travail, de l'Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale, Jean Boulet, s'est montré favorable aux démarches du comité dans le cadre du dépôt du projet de loi 59 qui reconnaîtrait une telle obligation.Vincent Berrouard, Initiative de journalisme local, Le Nord-Côtier 23 hours ago The Canadian Press Trudeau stresses digital tech's potential — and dangers — at global AI summit MONTREAL — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau kicked off the inaugural meeting of a global council on artificial intelligence by warning of the danger of unbridled digital technology, despite its potential to change the world for the better.The virtual summit marks the latest step in the slow march toward international co-operation on digital governance amid growing concerns over data privacy, built-in bias and deployment in war.Canada first set out on that path two years ago, unveiling plans with France for a standing AI forum during a meeting of G7 countries in Quebec.Since then, 13 other states have signed on to the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence to guide policy development with an eye to human rights, establishing expert panels and involving government, industry and academia.Speaking ahead of French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday, Trudeau said AI has the potential to combat diseases and climate change, but also to "create new challenges if left unchecked."Last month, the Liberal government tabled legislation to give Canadians more control over their information in the digital age, with potentially stiff fines for companies that flout the rules.This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4, 2020.The Canadian Press 22 hours ago Ad•Raging Bull Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdHow He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home Kyle Dennis took a leap of faith and decided to invest his savings of $15K in the stock market — $2.8M later, he owes his success to these strategies The Canadian Press Chris Finch, Jama Mahlalela join Nick Nurse's Toronto Raptors staff as assistants TORONTO — The Toronto Raptors have hired former New Orleans Pelicans associate head coach Chris Finch and ex-Raptors 905 head coach Jama Mahlalela as assistant coaches for Nick Nurse's staff. Raptors assistant coach Patrick Mutumbo will take over as coach of Raptors 905, a G League team.Raptors assistants Brittni Donaldson and John Bennett also will join the Raptors 905 staff.Finch spent the past three years in New Orleans. Previously, he was an assistant coach with Denver (2016-17) and Houston (2011-16).Prior to his time in the NBA, Finch guided Rio Grande to two consecutive appearances in the G League final, including a championship in 2010.Finch also was head coach of the British men's national team at the 2012 Olympics, with Nurse serving as one of his assistants.Mahlalela was an assistant coach with the Raptors for five seasons (2014-18) prior to becoming head coach for Raptors 905 the past two year. A native of Swaziland, Mahlalela grew up in the Greater Toronto Area.The Raptors open training camp this weekend in Tampa, Fla. This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 3, 2020.The Canadian Press 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Court order sought to remove hoard of vehicles from property The Fraser-Fort George Regional District has turned to the court to get a property owner to remove more than 100 vehicles stored on his property. In a notice of claim filed Nov. 30 at the Prince George courthouse, the FFGRD claims that as recently as mid-November, Thomas Stander had been storing as many as 140 vehicles on his 8570 Chilcotin Road property south of Prince George It says at least 23 of the vehicles had significant damage, at least 22 vehicles were without valid licence plates and that several piles of vehicle parts and other material were found on the property during a visit by the FFGRD's bylaw enforcement officer and inspections manager. The count was up from 134 vehicles found on the land during a previous visit in mid-May when it was also noted that many of the vehicles were "surrounded by tall grass and covered in moss." The FFGRD alleges Stander is in violation of the regional district's zoning and unsightly premises bylaws and is seeking an order that he lower the count down to 10 vehicles of which no more than two can be derelict and to remove all of the piles of parts and rubbish. Moreover, should the order be granted and Stander still fail to comply, the FFGRD is also seeking an order that it be allowed to move in and remove the items at cost to the property owner. A response to the claim has not yet been filed and the allegations remain to be tested in court.Mark Nielsen, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Prince George Citizen 21 hours ago CBC No new COVID-19 cases after 2nd round of tests linked to Charlottetown Rural All close contacts of a Charlottetown Rural High School student with COVID-19 have tested negative for the second time, according to P.E.I.'s Chief Public Health Office. Dr. Heather Morrison said in a statement Friday that includes "family, close friends, classmates he sat near, and hockey teammates."The statement continues: "Anyone else who was tested as a casual contact, and received a negative result, should continue to closely monitor for symptoms of COVID-19 and visit a drop-in testing clinic if symptoms develop."All close contacts will remain in self-isolation for the remainder of the 14 days regardless of the negative results, the statement said. There will not be a third round of testing. On Tuesday, Morrison said she believes the 15-year-old student likely came down with COVID-19 after direct contact with someone who had travelled off P.E.I. Attendance dipped at the school in the days following last weekend's announcement that the boy had tested positive. Dozens of students who had been in contact with the ill student were in self-isolation, while others chose not to attend classes. As well, the youth's hockey team had its activities cancelled for two weeks, with team members among those isolating.P.E.I. has had 73 confirmed cases of COVID-19 since the pandemic began. Only five of those are still considered active cases, Morrison's most recent statement said. In regional COVID-19 developments: More from CBC P.E.I. 21 hours ago Ad•Yahoo FeelGood Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdTake Time to Stop and Smile Brighten your day with the content from Yahoo FeelGood CBC Ontario reports 1,780 new COVID-19 cases, tightens restrictions in 3 regions Ontario reported another 1,780 cases of COVID-19 and 25 more deaths from the illness on Friday, as the provincial government announced the members of its vaccine distribution task force.The province also said three more regions are moving into new levels of the province's colour-coded restrictions framework for at least 28 days. York Region continued to avoid being placed in lockdown despite being among the hardest hit regions after Toronto and Peel.As of Monday, Middlesex-London and Thunder Bay will be in the orange "restrict" tier, while the Haliburton, Kawartha, Pine Ridge District Health Unit will move into the yellow "protect" category."Over the last seven days we have seen the trends in key public health indicators continue to go in the wrong direction in these three regions," said Minister of Health Christine Elliott in a news release.The new cases reported Friday include 633 in Toronto, 433 in Peel Region, 152 in York Region and 94 in Durham Region. Other public health units that saw double-digit increases were: * Windsor-Essex: 68 * Halton Region: 51 * Hamilton: 43 * Simcoe Muskoka: 41 * Waterloo Region: 40 * Middlesex-London: 39 * Ottawa: 36 * Wellington-Dufferin-Guelph: 25 * Niagara Region: 21 * Southwestern: 20 * Thunder Bay: 13 * Brant County: 11 * Huron Perth: 10Also included in today's new cases are 129 that are school-related: 102 students and 27 staff members. Some 776 of Ontario's 4,828 publicly-funded schools, or about 16 per cent, currently have at least one case of COVID-19, while eight schools are currently closed because of the illness.(Note: All of the figures used for new cases in this story are found on the Ontario health ministry's COVID-19 dashboard or in its daily epidemiologic summary. The number of cases for any region may differ from what is reported by the local public health unit because local units report figures at different times.)Given today's figures, the seven-day average of new daily cases dropped slightly to 1,759.There are currently 14,997 confirmed, active cases of COVID-19 provincewide, the most at any point since the outbreak began in late January.They come as Ontario's network of labs processed 56,001 test samples for the novel coronavirus and reported a test positivity rate of 3.6 per cent. Another 62,400 tests are in the queue waiting to be completed. Moreover, the number of patients in Ontario hospitals with confirmed cases of the illness climbed to 674. Of those, 207 are being treated in intensive care, though an internal Critical Care Services Ontario report puts the current total at 214 as of Friday morning. Some 116 are on ventilators.The 25 additional deaths pushes the province's official toll to 3,737. Vaccine task force members announcedMeanwhile, the province has appointed nine people to its vaccine panel, including the province's top coroner.The panel, headed by retired chief of national defence staff Rick Hillier, will oversee distribution of the vaccine when available.Health Minister Christine Elliott said it will be up to the panel to ensure effective and ethical delivery of a vaccine.WATCH | Dr. Isaac Bogoch, a member of the vaccine task force, details his priorities:Key tasks include delivery, logistics and administration, clinical guidance as well as public education and outreach.The panel includes Chief Coroner Dr. Dirk Huyer, former Toronto police chief Mark Saunders, and Linda Hasenfratz, head of car parts giant Linamar.LTC commission recommends annual inspectionsOntario's Long-Term Care Commission released its second interim report Friday morning, making seven more recommendations to the Progressive Conservative government. The interim report, which comes amid surging cases, notes 100 homes have seen an outbreak in the last six weeks, with 300 more deaths.Among them is a call to reintroduce comprehensive annual inspections, known as Resident Quality Inspections (RQI), which were eliminated by the province in the fall of 2018. The process required a minimum of one thorough, unannounced inspection each year. Only 27 homes were inspected last year, far fewer than in previous years, the report states. Inspectors looked at only 11 of the province's 670 nursing homes proactively from March 1 after the pandemic hit to Oct. 15.Inspectors issue mandatory orders only in "extreme circumstances," the report says, noting only 21 were handed out between January 2019 and August 2020. Fines or prosecutions are "rarely applied," resulting in a "lack of urgency" from home operators to address violations.CBC Marketplace reported in September that an analysis commissioned by the Ministry of Long-Term Care in 2015 concluded that RQIs were up to five times more effective than other types of inspections.In a statement, Minister of Long-Term Care Merrilee Fullerton didn't specifically mention the issue of inspections but said the government has already moved to address many of the commission's ongoing recommendations."We have invested over $750 million to protect residents, caregivers, and staff in long-term care homes during the pandemic, and we will continue to act on the commissioners' recommendations to protect our most valuable. 23 hours ago Reuters Firefighters move in on Southern California canyon blaze, aided by easing winds Firefighters battling a blaze in a Southern California canyon made some progress toward containment but were up against more high winds and low humidity on Friday, which threatened to stoke the flames that forced thousands to evacuate. The Bond Fire, which was about 10% contained on Friday afternoon, broke out around on Wednesday night on the road for which it is named and quickly engulfed much of Silverado Canyon, egged on by strong Santa Ana winds. "Firefighters worked through the night extinguishing hot spots, mopping up around structures and stopping the forward spread of this fire," Captain Paul Holaday of Orange County Fire Authority said in a video posted to Twitter on Friday. 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Former ambassador to U.S. shares insights with Northern chambers While the aftermath of the American presidential election continues to unfold, it remains to be seen how exactly the shift of power from Donald Trump to Joe Biden will impact Canada-U.S. relations. A former international ambassador cautions it won’t be all sunshine and lollipops ahead for the generally friendly neighbours. Derek Burney, who was born in Fort William (now Thunder Bay) served as Canada’s ambassador to the U.S. from 1989 to 1993 under Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Burney is currently chancellor of Lakehead University, chairman of the Burney Investment Group, chairman of GardaWorld’s International Advisory Board, chairman of Enablence Technologies Inc., and a member of the advisory board of Paradigm Capital. He was named an Officer to the Order of Canada in 1993. Last week he gave an online address which was hosted by the Thunder Bay Chamber of Commerce, and simulcast by the chambers of Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, North Bay and Timmins. Burney opened by calling the U.S. election a “cathartic” event. “The aftershocks continue to resonate. The Electoral College will meet on Dec. 14 to certify the results, and formally declare Joe Biden as president.” He then spoke of the big takeaways he had from the election. “A huge turnout amplified by massive influxes of mail-in ballots helped ultimately tip the verdict to Joe Biden, even though Trump won 10 million more votes than he received in 2016.” Burney said the 'Blue Wave' that many pollsters had predicted did not materialize. “Too many pollsters seemed more inclined to affect, rather than reflect, the mood of American voters. Biden won with a tightly disciplined, low-key campaign, banking on the fact that he was not Trump, and that the election would be a referendum on Trump, not a choice between the two candidates.” Burney lamented that foreign policy was barely mentioned by either candidate throughout the campaign. “Personalities, character and COVID concerns dominated.” Burney pointed out that regardless of the outcome the United States is in a period of deep division. “The country remains highly polarized — split right down the middle and very difficult to govern. The Democrats are jubilant, but weary. The Republicans are subdued, but not submissive.” He said the election conveyed a messy image of American democracy to the world, and that it regrettably emboldened authoritarian leaders like China's President Xi Jinping, Russia’s Vladimir Putin, and Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdo?an to take advantage. Domestically, policy ideas from the Republicans and Democrats on matters such as taxes, immigration, health care and energy are seemingly polar opposites. “Biden will definitely bring a less abrasive tone, especially on global issues, but his ability to implement major changes on domestic issues will be circumscribed, if the Republicans hold the Senate. He will also need to consolidate consensus on policies and priorities first within his own party, which is more divided internally, than are the Republicans.” “Biden's pledge to heal and unite the nation is commendable, but maybe unrealistic.” On the positive side, Burney did remark that there was some scope for bipartisan consensus on issues like justice reform, infrastructure, and possibly healthcare. “But if the Congress remains divided, agreements will require nimble give-and-take negotiations. At least Biden and Republican Senator Mitch McConnell are both Senate veterans, and they begin with a degree of mutual respect, a spirit that was entirely lacking between Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.” Regarding Canada and how a new government will affect Canadian business, Burney, said Biden will be more congenial with U.S. allies. “After 47 years of service in Washington, he is no stranger to Canada, nor to our Prime Minister and other alliance leaders. That alone is good news.” However, Burney said that in reality, the Canada-U.S. relationship is “no longer special” and that Biden’s domestic policies are a mixed bag for Canada moving forward. “Those favouring more action on climate change will be pleased by his quick decision to rejoin the Paris Accord. I personally would be happier if he were also committed to ensuring more timely, and more tangible commitments by major polluters like China and India. The imbalance is startling.” He also cautioned that Western Canada could be in for more challenging times concerning the oil and gas sector if Biden’s positions come to fruition. “If he fulfils his pledge to cancel the Keystone XL pipeline permit, that would be devastating for our energy sector. In my view, such action would be blatantly discriminatory and should be challenged forcefully by our government, not just the pipeline companies.” The first few months of 2021 will be highly interesting for economic observers on both sides of the border as the two nations, the largest trading partners on the planet, scramble to get their economies rolling again during a global health crisis. “Because we are joined at the hip economically with the U.S., we stand to gain when their economy is robust, and conversely when the U.S. economy slumps, so does ours. That is why my fervid hope is that Joe Biden puts economy recovery first and foremost on his agenda.” Burney told the business-oriented viewers what his overall message is. “At a time of greater instability and uncertainty in the world, my most important message to you is that greater self-reliance is becoming the order of the day. As business operators, you need to be mindful of that increasing trend. Find ways to produce more of what is needed right here in Canada, and rely less on global supply chains that can easily be disrupted, as our experience with COVID, badly demonstrated.”Andrew Autio, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Daily Press 22 hours ago Ad•Wakefit Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdSpecial Price Discounts on Wakefit Mattresses! 30% off on memory foam Wakefit mattresses. Use code 'SALARYDAY' & get special price discounts. 10yr warranty & removable zipper covers for easy wash. Yahoo News Canada The story behind the 'Ammonite' role Kate Winslet was 'nervous' and 'panicked' about taking on Kate Winslet may be one of the most iconic actors of all time with breathtaking performances in films like Titanic and The Reader, but it was her role as Mary Anning in Ammonite, written and directed by Francis Lee (God’s Own Country), that actually made her a bit uneasy. 21 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Humboldt Special Olympics Floor Hockey Team takes home team of the year The Humboldt Special Olympics Floor Hockey Team took home the Special Olympics Canada Team of the Year Award. TSN hosted the award ceremony on Facebook Live on Dec. 3 with athletes and coaches sending in their thank you videos for the ceremony. The team has been collecting the hardware over the last two years with a bronze medal win during the 2019 Special Olympics Ontario Invitational youth games in Toronto and another bronze win at the Special Olympics Canada Winter Games in Thunder Bay 2020. Floor hockey has been part of the Humboldt Special Olympics sporting list for the last 16 years. Ever since the team lost fellow teammate, Brody Hinz, in the Humboldt Broncos bus crash, the team has played to honour him, said Vic Rauter, a TSN announcer, during the ceremony. “Since the loss of their friend and teammate, the Special Olympics Humboldt Broncos floor hockey team have been on a mission to honour those lost and those who were affected.” This award comes on the cusp of two provincial awards in October, another team award for the floor hockey team and a coaching award from coach Brain Reifferscheid. Reifferscheid said the award was unexpected and the coaches and players are pretty happy and proud and excited and humbled by the honour, he said. The provincial award was enough of a surprise for the team to wrap their heads around and celebrate but it was not long after before they were contacted by Special Olympics Canada about their national award. This will be the second year in a row that a Humboldt Special Olympics athlete or team has received a national award from Special Olympics Canada, with Tianna Zimmerman from Englefeld taking home Athlete of the Year during the 2019 award ceremony as well as the provincial honour that same year, just like the floor hockey team. This two year stretch at both the national and provincial level said a lot about the Special Olympics Humboldt, Reifferscheid said. “We've got a group of athletes that are very sports-minded and committed to achieving high goals. It also says something about the Special Olympics Humboldt organization, all the volunteers and coaches and all the sports. Everyone has a piece of contributing to helping athletes be successful.” On behalf of the Humboldt Special Olympics floor hockey team, they are honoured to receive this award, Reifferscheid said.Becky Zimmer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Powassan receives praise, warning While the Municipality of Powassan has received a “clean audit report,” there are dark clouds on the horizon as the full effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have yet to be felt. In a report to council delivered virtually, chartered professional accountant Dean Decaire of BDO Canada in North Bay said “there are no errors or irregularities” in Powassan's 2019 financial statement. But, although taxes received in 2019 amounted to $755,596, tax arrears stood at $319,302. And while Decaire said he hoped the municipality had exercised “strong collection” practices this year to rein in the late taxes, “COVID-19 happened and it may have impeded tax collections for 2020.” The municipality, Mayor Peter McIsaac told Decaire, has been “working on rectifying” that situation. “It's a priority,” McIsaac said. “We have to make sure we collect our taxes from residents and businesses.” Later in his presentation Decaire added a section dealing with the impact COVID-19 could have on the community in future. He said Powassan isn't alone and virtually all municipalities will face financial impacts from the virus. “At this time, the full potential impact of COVID-19 on the municipality is not known,” he wrote in his report. Decaire says the actual disruptions the virus has caused are expected to be temporary, but because the circumstances are dynamic in nature, the length of the disruptions and the related financial impacts can't “be reasonably estimated at this time.” Decaire also addressed the municipality's future ability to deliver essential and non-essential services as a result of COVID-19. When it comes to non-essential services, Decaire said, Powassan's ability to keep delivering these services and to continue employing the related staff will depend on what help comes from the provincial and federal governments. With regard to delivering essential services, Powassan must focus on collecting the money it's owed, continue managing its expenditures, leverage its existing reserves and access “available credit facilities,” Decaire said. He said it is “fabulous” the municipality continues to pay down on its long-term debt, which was $4.2 million at the end of 2019, or $118,000 less than 2018. Decaire also noted Powassan does a good job of controlling its operating expenses, which amount to $6 million a year. It posted a $742,000 budget surplus in 2019, in part due to government grants. Decaire commended council for making “significant” infrastructure investments. In the past two years, the municipality has spent more than $5 million to improve its infrastructure. Decaire made a point of saying residents often won't easily see the infrastructure because much of it involves water and sewer projects beneath the ground. Rocco Frangione is a Local Journalism Initiative reporter who works out of the North Bay Nugget. The Local Journalism Initiative is funded by the Government of Canada.Rocco Frangione, Local Journalism Initiative, The North Bay Nugget 22 hours ago Ad•Amazon India Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdAmazon Wardrobe Refresh Sale Stay #HarPalFashionable with up to 70% off on all your favorite brands. Are you ready? Rumble Massive explosion at oil refiner in South Africa An explosion is caught on camera at the poorly maintained Durban Engen oil refinery, sparking community outrage. Check it out! Full credit to: @attiedb on Twitter 23 hours ago The Canadian Press Miguel Algarín, a founder of beloved NYC poetry space, dies NEW YORK — Miguel Algarín, poet, professor and a founder of New York City's beloved Nuyorican Poets Café performance space, has died. He was 79. Algarín died Monday at a Manhattan hospital from sepsis, said Daniel Gallant, executive director of the Nuyorican Poets Café. Born in Puerto Rico, Algarín and his family came to New York City when he was a child. After Algarín had returned to New York with degrees from the University of Wisconsin and Pennsylvania State University, he held gatherings with other poets in his apartment in the early 1970s, exploring Puerto Rican identity and other themes. Out of that was created the Nuyorican Poets Café, which by 1981 had moved to a building on Manhattan's lower east side where it remains. “Miguel was a brilliant poet, an influential professor and leader, and a supportive mentor who inspired and guided generations of artists," Gallant said. Algarín was a prolific writer, with multiple books of poetry to his name, and edited several anthologies as well. He spent years at Rutgers University in New Jersey, where he taught classes on Shakespeare, creative writing and ethnic literature, and became a professor emeritus. Gallant said the cafe would have an online tribute for Algarín this month, and would do something in person as soon as conditions allow. The Associated Press 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Tax collection on track for Tisdale COVID-19 has made things difficult for municipalities, especially when it came to tax collection for the 2020 tax year. During a normal year, Tisdale has a reminiscing tax discount period from May to November, with a 15 per cent tax discount for those residents who pay in May and the discount diminishing over the following months by five per cent, said Brad Hvidston, Tisdale’s administrator With COVID causing financial challenges for residents, Hvidston said they changed the rates so the discount dropped by two per cent over the following months so that residents could still take advantage of the discount if they paid later. While Al Jellicoe, Tisdale’s mayor, said this was appreciated by residents, tax payments came into the town as usual with 95 per cent of property taxes paid by the end of May, Hvidston said. People save up during the year, he said, in order to take advantage of that discount. “By the time COVID hit in March and taxes were due in May, a large amount of people had their taxes mostly accumulated by them. I'm anticipating that next year will be the year that we see the impact on COVID.” With tax challenges being expected for the coming year, Hvidston said the council will have to decide how they can help residents deal with this in the future. The tax update was reported during the council meeting on Nov. 30.Becky Zimmer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 23 hours ago Ad•ICICI Lombard Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdNo Room Rent Cap - ICICI Lombard CHI Protect your savings from expensive medical bills. Local Journalism Initiative GNWT opens nominations for Minister's Culture and Heritage Awards Nominations are open to recognize individuals in the territory who “work to strengthen the arts, culture, heritage and languages of the N.W.T.” The Minister’s Culture and Heritage Awards celebrate “outstanding leadership in the North” and raise awareness about the importance of protecting, preserving and celebrating the different cultures and unique ways of life in the territory. There are five categories: According to the GNWT's website, a Minister's Choice Award will also be handed out this year at the discretion of RJ Simpson, the minister. Awards will be given to winners virtually this year, due to COVID-19. Northerners looking to nominate a peer must submit the necessary form by January 8, 2021.Sarah Sibley, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Cabin Radio 23 hours ago Reuters Former Malta PM says he had no indication of journalist murder plot Former Malta Prime Minister Joseph Muscat told a board of inquiry on Friday that he had no prior indication of any plans for the 2017 murder of anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia. Muscat was testifying before the public inquiry that he had appointed to look into whether the state could have prevented the murder, which shocked Europe and raised questions about the rule of law on the small Mediterranean island. Schembri resigned a few days earlier, when his close friendship with Fenech was revealed. 22 hours ago Reuters Canadian dollar cracks 78 U.S. cents on strong jobs data TORONTO (Reuters) -The Canadian dollar strengthened to a two-year high against its U.S. counterpart on Friday as Wall Street rose and data showed Canada's economy added more jobs than expected in November, with the currency advancing for the third straight week. Canadian employment rose by 62,000 in November and the unemployment rate fell to 8.5%, both beating analyst expectations. The market also digested U.S. data showing the smallest nonfarm payrolls gain since the jobs recovery started in May. 22 hours ago Ad•Morningstar Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. Ad2 Strategies To Get Out Of Debt Want to be loan free? Here is help on how to triumph in the battle with debt. Local Journalism Initiative 'We need a place to rent': Elgin family calls for help after home destroyed by fire A family is left homeless after a fire engulfed their mobile home on 15 Wilson Avenue in Elgin on Dec. 1. Wanda MacDonald, her partner, three children and a son-in-law, escaped unharmed. They managed to save their six dogs and a cat, although one cat is still missing. “I was in the house, on Facebook at the time, when Jason (her son) yelled that the bike was on fire, (although) they’re not sure if that’s what caused it,” MacDonald said. The fire is still under investigation. The family has no home insurance to cover their losses. MacDonald and her family went into the house a few times to save their pets, even though the house was on fire. “A lot of people say animals are just animals, but they’re not. They’re family members,” she explained. She said her most immediate need is a three or four-bedroom place to rent. “That’s all I’m looking for--just enough space for my family. We’ve been calling around, but most places are rented,” MacDonald added. She said her family has been getting huge donations from people in the community, but her father’s home, located right beside hers, can’t store the couches, beds and other items they’ve received. “Our family is so grateful. I just want to say thank you to the community for helping out.” Country Squire in Gananoque had been letting them stay at the hotel, but “our last stay is tonight, we have to be out of there tomorrow,” she said. Her son Adam, 21, and her daughter both purchased brand new acoustic guitars for Christmas, but both guitars were burned in the fire. “That’s all they wanted for Christmas,” MacDonald said. MacDonald can be reached at 613-532-4827. A GoFundMe page has been set up to help the family. Yona Harvey, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Smiths Falls Record News a day ago Reuters New EU-U.S. data transfer pact? Not any time soon, says EU privacy watchdog Companies hoping the EU and the new U.S. administration will soon strike a new transatlantic data transfer pact to replace one struck down by a court will probably have to wait months for any result, the head of the EU privacy watchdog said on Friday. Washington and Brussels have in recent years seen their data transfer accords, one known as the Safe Harbour and its successor the Privacy Shield, rejected by Europe's top court because of concerns about U.S. surveillance. Both pacts were challenged in a long-running dispute between Facebook and Austrian privacy activist Max Schrems who has campaigned about the risk of U.S. intelligence agencies accessing data on Europeans. 21 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative First Nations group calls for resignation of Saskatchewan’s minister of corrections The Congress of Aboriginals Peoples (CAP) is calling on the resignation of Saskatchewan’s Minister of Corrections, Policing and Public Safety Christine Tell. More than 100 inmates at Saskatoon Correctional Centre have tested positive for COVID-19. “Minister Tell has fumbled the ball in her role as minster responsible to Saskatchewan correctional facilities,” said National Vice-Chief Kim Beaudin Dec. 3. “This requires leadership with a level of foresight and compassion that is lacking in her public response to COVID-19.” The CAP is also calling on the federal government to intervene in Saskatchewan’s provincial jail system. They want all non-violent inmates to be released immediately. They also want testing of all inmates and staff and measures to ensure infected inmates are given separate living quarters from other inmates. "Our people are now facing a death sentence in Saskatoon Correctional Centre due to Covid-19,” said Beaudin. "These are lives being intentionally put at risk, and is nothing short of a genocidal, colonialist policy.” Saskatchewan’s Minister of Corrections, Policing and Public Safety department was contacted for comment on the situation at the Saskatoon Correctional Centre but have not responded. Earlier this week protesters – concerned for their loved ones inside - picketed in front of the Saskatoon Correctional Centre. A group of Saskatchewan lawyers sent a letter Tuesday to Tell calling for the release of non-violent, low-risk inmates who are elderly and have compromised immune systems. CUPE 1949, the union that represents 130 lawyers and legal staff at Legal Aid Saskatchewan, says the outbreak at Saskatoon Correctional Centre shows the volatility of the situation. “Our jails are overcrowded with vulnerable people who have virtually no means of protecting themselves,” said Julia Quigley, President of CUPE 1949. “Once the virus gets in, our clients are at an incredible risk.” Quigley said the majority of inmates in Saskatchewan are on remand, meaning they haven’t been convicted of any crime. “In essence, these inmates have a bull’s eye on their backs, and yet they are legally innocent,” said Quigley. She said that Saskatchewan remands people at twice the national average and the majority of inmates in Saskatchewan prisons are Indigenous and medically vulnerable to COVID-19. “This virus doesn’t discriminate, but the criminal justice system does. Our Indigenous clients will bear the brunt of the Saskatoon outbreak, and any other outbreaks if we don’t contain it.” “We cleared the jails effectively in the first wave, without any discernible risk to the public. We need to do it again, now,” added Quigley. Noel Busse, director of communications for Saskatchewan Ministry of Justice/Corrections and Policing, however, told the News-Optimist in July that no prisoners were released early from Saskatchewan jails during the COVID-19 pandemic. “No sentenced offenders have been released early as a result of COVID-19,” Busse said about the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic that hit the province. In March, the Saskatchewan Ministry of Corrections and Policing put in measures to decrease the risk of COVID-19 spread. They used existing infrastructure and program space in correctional facilities to create additional separation between offenders and staff. They also restricted the movement and placement of offenders within a facility, and provided personal protective equipment to corrections staff and offenders. COVID-19 also prompted the province’s Crown prosecutors to rethink remanding some defendants who were charged but not yet convicted. Some non-violent inmates held on remand in Saskatchewan’s jails were released while waiting for trial. Saskatoon Correctional Centre is a provincial jail run by the province of Saskatchewan. As of Dec. 4 there are no COVID-19 positive cases in the federal penitentiaries in the province, such as the Saskatchewan Penitentiary in Prince Albert, the Regional Psychiatric Centre in Saskatoon, Okimaw Ohci Healing Lodge, and Willow Cree Healing Lodge. Lisa Joy, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 22 hours ago More Stories