First Nation warned Yukon the ATAC resource road would ‘impair the process of reconciliation’ HOME MAIL NEWS SPORTS FINANCE CELEBRITY STYLE MOVIES WEATHER ANSWERS MOBILE Yahoo News Search query Sign in Mail Sign in to view your mail News News Coronavirus Coronavirus Originals Originals Canada Canada World World Business Business Entertainment Entertainment Sports Sports Science & Tech Science & Tech Weather Weather More More Local Journalism Initiative First Nation warned Yukon the ATAC resource road would ‘impair the process of reconciliation’ Read full article December 5, 2020, 12:12 a.m.·6 min read Had the ATAC mining access road in the Beaver River watershed been built, it would have constituted a “breach of the honour of the Crown” and betrayed First Nations people, according to a decision document released by the Yukon government after inquiries by The Narwhal. The document provides insight into the territorial government’s Nov. 27 decision to reject the proposed all-access road by Vancouver-based ATAC Resources, a mining exploration company with gold and copper claims in the region. The document also sheds light on concerns raised by the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun, on whose territory the claims are located. The rejected road was given a conditional green light by the Yukon Environmental and Socio-economic Assessment Board in 2017 but was awaiting a final decision from the Yukon government. The new route would have opened access to a 65-kilometre portion of the company’s three mineral claims that form the Rackla gold property and connected Keno City to the Tiger gold deposit, the site of a planned ATAC Resources’ open-pit gold mine. The First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun was “strongly opposed” to the project going ahead, the decision document reveals. The document contains a list of concerns raised by the nation, including fears the road would have caused “significant adverse impacts” on treaty rights such as hunting, fishing and trapping in traditional territory. That list also noted concerns the road would have prevented Na-Cho Nyäk Dun citizens from adequately exercising treaty rights in “one of the few remaining wilderness areas in its traditional territory.” The road would have “fundamentally alter[ed] an untouched portion of” the nation’s territory and would have “alienated” citizens from their lands. “Approving the application would permanently impair the process of reconciliation that the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun, the Yukon government and Canada have been engaged in for more than 30 years,” the document states. Story continues Na-Cho Nyäk Dun Chief Simon Mervyn did not return a request for comment. Andrew Carne, ATAC Resources’ vice-president of corporate and project development, told The Narwhal this week that the company is seeking legal counsel on the Yukon government’s decision and that, as a result, there’s little else he can state at this time. “ATAC does not agree with many material aspects of the government’s decision,” Carne said in an email to The Narwhal. In an ATAC Resources’ press release, president and CEO Graham Downs said the road’s cancellation suggests Yukon isn’t open for business. “We are extremely disappointed with and surprised by this decision,” he wrote. The Yukon chapter of the Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society has warned that roads such as the one ATAC Resources’ proposed can fragment wildlife habitat, interrupt migratory patterns and lead to an increase in mining activity and hunting pressure. The Beaver River watershed, northeast of Mayo, is a vast expanse of relatively intact wilderness that’s home to moose, grizzly bears and wolves. According to the Yukon government’s decision document, ATAC Resources’ plan for the road didn’t adequately consider cumulative effects on the region’s ecosystem — particularly on wildlife. Todd Powell, director of mineral resources at the Yukon Department of Energy, Mines and Resources, told The Narwhal the company did not review wildlife impacts “in a meaningful way.” “The bigger the project, the bigger the effects are. In this case, a road into an area like that was going to have fairly significant effects.” The company’s plan to mitigate effects on wildlife “simply didn’t go far enough,” he said. According to ATAC Resources’ draft management plan, mitigation efforts included building the road in the Rankin Creek valley, where fewer wildlife are present, reducing or suspending traffic during calving and rutting and making the route private to prevent hunting. The company also said it would conduct road patrols to further deter hunting. The decision document notes there were baseline data “deficiencies” that would have affected environmental monitoring efforts. In its draft management plan, ATAC noted Lebarge Environmental Services conducted eight aerial and three ground surveys of wildlife between 2010 and 2013 that noted the project area is home to species that are considered of “special concern” by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada including woodland caribou, grizzly bear, wolverine, collared pika, horned grebe, rusty blackbird, peregrine falcon and dolly varden. Threatened species that are found in the project area, according to ATAC, include the common nighthawk and the olive-sided flycatcher. Without adequate monitoring, Powell said there was little hope potential impacts could be mitigated in the future, which contributed to the Yukon government pulling the plug on the project. The Beaver River watershed is largely roadless and the ATAC road would have set a new “precedent” for mineral exploration in the territory, the document states. No roads longer than 50 kilometres have been built for operations that, like ATAC Resources’, are purely exploratory over the past decade, the document notes. “Far more typically, existing access routes and new access routes have only been upgraded or constructed once mine development and production has been authorized.” ATAC Resources is not currently operating any mines in the region and is not permitted to. The company is only permitted to conduct exploratory work until 2024, which raised questions about the need for the access road and concerns the company wouldn’t have long enough to successfully build and decommission the road as proposed. “The nearness of the expiration date doesn’t suggest that they would have a reasonable timeframe to get all of that work done,” Powell said. A sub-regional land use plan for the Beaver River watershed was recently launched by the Yukon government and the Na-Cho Nyäk Dun First Nation. Work on the plan is set to continue, regardless of the ATAC road cancellation, Powell said. “Everybody recognizes that this is a highly mineralized area with lots of potential,” he said. “The commitment remains in place to finalize [the land use plan] as soon as we can.” Randi Newton, conservation manager with CPAWS Yukon, recently told The Narwhal she hopes that the sub-regional land use plan will be replaced with a much broader plan that encapsulates the entire Beaver River watershed. CPAWS recently released a report that cautioned the Yukon Environmental and Socio-economic Assessment Board against approving road projects before land use plans are completed. “Land use planning can take that broader view of how much development is allowable in an area, which areas should we keep remote and free of roads,” Malkolm Boothroyd, the report’s author and campaigns co-ordinator at the Yukon chapter of CPAWS, told The Narwhal in a previous interview. Powell said that while the sub-regional land use plan won’t be scrapped, it could help inform a region-wide plan in the future, so the intention now is to finish what has already been started. Lewis Rifkind, mining analyst at the Yukon Conservation Society, told The Narwhal his organization has been highlighting concerns associated with the ATAC road since its inception. While he questions why it took the Yukon government so long to cancel the project, he’s hopeful environmental protection is coming to the region through land use planning. “It does give us a chance to protect or manage a pretty large-scale landscape,” he said. “Now we can do the planning without having the road dictate certain land uses.” Julien Gignac, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Narwhal TRENDING 1. Supreme Court again asked to block Biden win in Pennsylvania 2. Georgia GOP seeks mail-in ballot changes after Biden's win 3. US intelligence director says China is top threat to America 4. Wisconsin high court declines to hear Trump election lawsuit 5. Two Grand Slam events added to curling bubble at Canada Olympic Park in Calgary Latest Stories CBC Outbreak isn't over, Moderna vaccine best for Nunavut, officials say The number of active cases of COVID-19 in Nunavut continues to fall, but it will be some time before community outbreaks are officially over, Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Michael Patterson said in a news conference Friday at the Legislative Assembly. The territory reported a total of 51 active cases on Friday, with eight new cases reported in Arviat, and says 155 people are recovered. Patterson says most people will be immune from catching COVID-19 again for at least two or three months. "It means that we are moving in the right direction and we can be optimistic," he said. Of those 51 active cases, 44 are in Arviat. The community is in lockdown and there is community transmission still happening."In Arviat, there has been progress but there continues to be evidence of community transmission," Patterson said. "I urge people to stay isolated if you have been told by public health to isolate."There also remain seven active cases in Whale Cove, but no cases are recent, he said.In Rankin Inlet all cases were reported as recovered as of Thursday.In a news release, Patterson said the community had "successfully flattened the curve," but said existing restrictions are still in place and won't be changed until everyone in the community is finished their mandated isolation. Missed the government update? Watch it here:Moderna vaccine most 'appropriate' for NunavutWhen COVID-19 vaccines are available, Patterson said it's more likely that Nunavut will receive the Moderna vaccine because storage and shipping requirements for the Pfizer vaccine aren't appropriate for remote locations. If there is access in Nunavut to the Pfizer vaccine it will be in Iqaluit because of the cold storage required for the vaccine. "We're expecting that we won't get any of that vaccine in Nunavut," he said. A vaccine isn't a "magic switch" but "the more people get it, the less chance there will be of further outbreaks that are happening right now," he said.Patterson said the government is working on education and communications plans to "combat the misinformation" that could scare people into feeling the vaccine is unsafe. "It's certainly a concern," he said. "We'll do everything we can to ensure Nunavummiut have accurate, up to date information and that individuals will also have the right to make the choice."Help make holidays safe, says premierIn Rankin Inlet there will be residents isolating for the next 10 days at least and an outbreak can't be considered as over for around a month, Patterson said. Sanikiluaq won't be considered clear of COVID-19 until two weeks from now. "COVID-19 is not over in Nunavut. Everyone needs to ensure they do their part to bring us to zero active cases in the territory and remain committed and prepared for a potential resurgence of the virus," he said in a statement. Public health is following 752 people for symptoms of COVID-19 or contacts of people with the virus. "Our case numbers are going down but that does not mean that we can relax our hard work to eliminate this virus," Premier Joe Savikataaq said. "Let's stay safe and make sure this holiday season is as safe as possible for everyone." Anyone who may have had contact with COVID-19 is asked to call a COVID-hotline at 1-888-975-8601 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. ET, or to notify their community health centre, and isolate at home for 14 days, the Health department said.The department is asking residents not to visit their community health centres in person. The news conference will air later in the day on CBC Radio. 23 hours ago The Canadian Press Here's a quick glance at unemployment rates for November, by Canadian city OTTAWA — The national unemployment rate was 8.5 per cent in November. Statistics Canada also released seasonally adjusted, three-month moving average unemployment rates for major cities. It cautions, however, that the figures may fluctuate widely because they are based on small statistical samples. Here are the jobless rates last month by city (numbers from the previous month in brackets):— St. John's, N.L. 9.3 per cent (8.8)— Halifax 6.6 per cent (7.7)— Moncton, N.B. 8.9 per cent (8.3)— Saint John, N.B. 10.2 per cent (10.0)— Saguenay, Que. 5.2 per cent (5.0)— Quebec City 4.3 per cent (4.5)— Sherbrooke, Que. 6.4 per cent (7.0)— Trois-Rivieres, Que. 5.7 per cent (6.0)— Montreal 8.5 per cent (9.6)— Gatineau, Que. 7.2 per cent (7.9)— Ottawa 7.1 per cent (8.2)— Kingston, Ont. 7.2 per cent (8.5)— Peterborough, Ont. 11.9 per cent (11.7)— Oshawa, Ont. 7.9 per cent (8.3)— Toronto 10.7 per cent (11.5)— Hamilton, Ont. 8.0 per cent (9.2)— St. Catharines-Niagara, Ont. 7.2 per cent (7.5)— Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo, Ont. 9.1 per cent (10.8)— Brantford, Ont. 6.6 per cent (7.2)— Guelph, Ont. 7.0 per cent (8.3)— London, Ont. 8.4 per cent (8.9)— Windsor, Ont. 10.6 per cent (10.8)— Barrie, Ont. 10.6 per cent (9.2)— Greater Sudbury, Ont. 7.6 per cent (7.9)— Thunder Bay, Ont. 7.5 per cent (7.6)— Winnipeg 8.1 per cent (8.7)— Regina 5.4 per cent (6.1)— Saskatoon 7.8 per cent (8.1)— Calgary 10.7 per cent (11.3)— Edmonton 11.3 per cent (12.0)— Kelowna, B.C. 4.7 per cent (6.2)— Abbotsford-Mission, B.C. 8.1 per cent (8.6)— Vancouver 8.1 per cent (9.7)— Victoria 6.3 per cent (7.6)This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 4, 2020 and was generated automatically.The Canadian Press a day ago Ad•Raging Bull Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdHow He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home Kyle Dennis took a leap of faith and decided to invest his savings of $15K in the stock market — $2.8M later, he owes his success to these strategies The Canadian Press Denmark to end oil, gas extraction in North Sea COPENHAGEN — Denmark has decided to end all oil and gas activities in the North Sea by 2050 and has cancelled its latest licensing round, saying the country is "now putting an end to the fossil fuel era.”The Danish Parliament voted late Thursday to end offshore gas and oil extraction, which had started in 1972 and made the country the largest producer in the European Union. Non EU-members Norway and Britain are larger producers, with a bigger presence in the North Sea.Denmark is this year estimated to pump a bit over 100,000 barrels of crude oil and oil equivalents a day, according to the government.That is relatively little in a global context. The U.K. produces about ten times that amount while the U.S., the world's largest producer, pumped over 19 million barrels of oil a day last year. Environmental activists nevertheless said the move was significant as it shows the way forward in the fight against climate change.Greenpeace called it “a landmark decision toward the necessary phase-out of fossil fuels.”“This is a huge victory for the climate movement,” said Helene Hagel of Greenpeace Denmark. Wealthy Denmark has “a moral obligation to end the search for new oil to send a clear signal that the world can and must act to meet the Paris Agreement and mitigate the climate crisis."The 2015 landmark Paris climate deal asks both rich and poor countries to take action to curb the rise in global temperatures that is melting glaciers, raising sea levels and shifting rainfall patterns. It requires governments to present national plans to reduce emissions to limit global temperature rise to well below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).Denmark has been an early adopter of wind power, with more than a third of its electricity production deriving from wind turbines. They are considered key in the transformation of the energy system and should enable Denmark to no longer be dependent on fossil fuels in 2050 for electricity production.The agreement to end oil and gas extraction means that a planned eighth licensing round and any future tenders have been cancelled and makes 2050 the last year in which to extract fossil fuels in the North Sea.It was backed by both the left-leaning parties as well as the centre-right opposition, suggesting the policy is unlikely to be reversed.“It is incredibly important that we now have a broad majority behind the agreement, so that there is no longer any doubt about the possibilities and conditions in the North Sea,” said Climate Minister Dan Joergensen, a Social Democrat.According to official figures, the move would mean an estimated total loss for Denmark of 13 billion kroner ($2.1 billion). The industry has earned the small Scandinavian country over 500 billion ($81.5 billion) since the 1970s.In October, energy group Total pulled out of the latest tender process leaving only one applicant, Ardent Oil, according to authorities.In June, the Danish Council on Climate Change - an independent body that advises the government - recommended ending any future exploration in the North Sea, saying a continuation would hurt the country’s ambitions as a front-runner on fighting climate change.Jan M. Olsen, The Associated Press 22 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Gander native bringing annual comedy show back home When the COVID-19 pandemic hit in the spring, the ramifications sent artists into a tailspin. Musicians, comedians and others who make their living performing in front of people saw their industries put on hold as the coronavirus forced governments to enact lockdowns as a safety measure. In the last couple of months, the arts have started to show a resurgence. Artists have got back to plying their trade and performing to audiences. Albeit those audiences are smaller due to the restrictions that are still in place. “I’d rather be doing quarter capacity than sitting on my couch for four months straight,” said St. John’s-based comic and Gander native Matt Wright. Since September, Wright has got back to working as regularly as you can in these times. He is back writing for "This Hour Has 22 Minutes" — over Zoom calls — and he has filmed a pair of standup sets for festivals in Ontario and Nova Scotia. On top of that, Wright is keeping his Christmas show streak alive. He has a pair of shows scheduled for today and Saturday at the Joseph R. Smallwood Arts and Culture Centre in Gander. St. John’s comic Stephen Payette is also on the bill. “Like a lot of people, I didn’t have any work for a long time during the beginning of (the pandemic) and it just went from doing puzzles and trying to grow parsley ... (to) as of September I’ve been working non-stop,” he said. For others, comedy during the pandemic has meant getting used to performing in front of audiences in different ways. That might mean performing over a Zoom call or streaming a show over a social media platform. St. John’s comic John Sheehan said the pandemic has altered his profession from a logistical standpoint. It also means becoming acquainted with performing to screens and fewer people, while adjusting to not having the audience to play off of. “It just takes getting used to a new aspect of it,” he said. As comedy starts to get rolling again, the content matter is sure to start reflecting society and the experiences of each comedian during the lockdown. Wright has found he has drifted a little bit toward writing about that experience, but still, there are challenges. “It’s weird,” he said. “For joke writing, you’re reliant on stuff happening to you and new stimulus. Once the restrictions eased a bit in Newfoundland, I started writing. “But when I was sitting around the house the first two months we were in absolute lockdown, I wasn’t doing any of that.” This will be the seventh year that Wright has held a Christmas show, and it is fair to say this will be his most unusual one yet. First, there is the date. In a normal year, the show would likely take place a couple of days after Christmas Day. In 2019, the Gander show came after a tour of the province’s arts and culture centres. The other unusual bit is the parameters of each show due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the regulations that surround it. Both shows are operating at just less than half capacity and they are being limited to just an hour. Either way, the audience will get the same brand of comedy from Wright. It's a show Wright looks forward to every year. “It is always nice to be playing at home,” he said. Nicholas Mercer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Central Voice 21 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Former ambassador to U.S. shares insights with Northern chambers While the aftermath of the American presidential election continues to unfold, it remains to be seen how exactly the shift of power from Donald Trump to Joe Biden will impact Canada-U.S. relations. A former international ambassador cautions it won’t be all sunshine and lollipops ahead for the generally friendly neighbours. Derek Burney, who was born in Fort William (now Thunder Bay) served as Canada’s ambassador to the U.S. from 1989 to 1993 under Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Burney is currently chancellor of Lakehead University, chairman of the Burney Investment Group, chairman of GardaWorld’s International Advisory Board, chairman of Enablence Technologies Inc., and a member of the advisory board of Paradigm Capital. He was named an Officer to the Order of Canada in 1993. Last week he gave an online address which was hosted by the Thunder Bay Chamber of Commerce, and simulcast by the chambers of Sudbury, Sault Ste. Marie, North Bay and Timmins. Burney opened by calling the U.S. election a “cathartic” event. “The aftershocks continue to resonate. The Electoral College will meet on Dec. 14 to certify the results, and formally declare Joe Biden as president.” He then spoke of the big takeaways he had from the election. “A huge turnout amplified by massive influxes of mail-in ballots helped ultimately tip the verdict to Joe Biden, even though Trump won 10 million more votes than he received in 2016.” Burney said the 'Blue Wave' that many pollsters had predicted did not materialize. “Too many pollsters seemed more inclined to affect, rather than reflect, the mood of American voters. Biden won with a tightly disciplined, low-key campaign, banking on the fact that he was not Trump, and that the election would be a referendum on Trump, not a choice between the two candidates.” Burney lamented that foreign policy was barely mentioned by either candidate throughout the campaign. “Personalities, character and COVID concerns dominated.” Burney pointed out that regardless of the outcome the United States is in a period of deep division. “The country remains highly polarized — split right down the middle and very difficult to govern. The Democrats are jubilant, but weary. The Republicans are subdued, but not submissive.” He said the election conveyed a messy image of American democracy to the world, and that it regrettably emboldened authoritarian leaders like China's President Xi Jinping, Russia’s Vladimir Putin, and Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdo?an to take advantage. Domestically, policy ideas from the Republicans and Democrats on matters such as taxes, immigration, health care and energy are seemingly polar opposites. “Biden will definitely bring a less abrasive tone, especially on global issues, but his ability to implement major changes on domestic issues will be circumscribed, if the Republicans hold the Senate. He will also need to consolidate consensus on policies and priorities first within his own party, which is more divided internally, than are the Republicans.” “Biden's pledge to heal and unite the nation is commendable, but maybe unrealistic.” On the positive side, Burney did remark that there was some scope for bipartisan consensus on issues like justice reform, infrastructure, and possibly healthcare. “But if the Congress remains divided, agreements will require nimble give-and-take negotiations. At least Biden and Republican Senator Mitch McConnell are both Senate veterans, and they begin with a degree of mutual respect, a spirit that was entirely lacking between Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.” Regarding Canada and how a new government will affect Canadian business, Burney, said Biden will be more congenial with U.S. allies. “After 47 years of service in Washington, he is no stranger to Canada, nor to our Prime Minister and other alliance leaders. That alone is good news.” However, Burney said that in reality, the Canada-U.S. relationship is “no longer special” and that Biden’s domestic policies are a mixed bag for Canada moving forward. “Those favouring more action on climate change will be pleased by his quick decision to rejoin the Paris Accord. I personally would be happier if he were also committed to ensuring more timely, and more tangible commitments by major polluters like China and India. The imbalance is startling.” He also cautioned that Western Canada could be in for more challenging times concerning the oil and gas sector if Biden’s positions come to fruition. “If he fulfils his pledge to cancel the Keystone XL pipeline permit, that would be devastating for our energy sector. In my view, such action would be blatantly discriminatory and should be challenged forcefully by our government, not just the pipeline companies.” The first few months of 2021 will be highly interesting for economic observers on both sides of the border as the two nations, the largest trading partners on the planet, scramble to get their economies rolling again during a global health crisis. “Because we are joined at the hip economically with the U.S., we stand to gain when their economy is robust, and conversely when the U.S. economy slumps, so does ours. That is why my fervid hope is that Joe Biden puts economy recovery first and foremost on his agenda.” Burney told the business-oriented viewers what his overall message is. “At a time of greater instability and uncertainty in the world, my most important message to you is that greater self-reliance is becoming the order of the day. As business operators, you need to be mindful of that increasing trend. Find ways to produce more of what is needed right here in Canada, and rely less on global supply chains that can easily be disrupted, as our experience with COVID, badly demonstrated.”Andrew Autio, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Daily Press 22 hours ago Ad•Yahoo FeelGood Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdTake Time to Stop and Smile Brighten your day with the content from Yahoo FeelGood CBC Windsor-Essex hospitals sound alarm over rising COVID-19 cases Three Windsor-Essex hospitals have issued a strong warning over the current surge in COVID-19 cases — and what could happen if the trend continues.In a joint statement, they pleaded with the public to continue to do their part to prevent the spread of the virus."The scenario that our Windsor-Essex region residents have seen on TV taking place in other jurisdictions around the world, where hospital resources are stretched beyond capacity, is showing signs of occurring in our area of the province," chief executives from Hôtel-Dieu Grace Healthcare, Windsor Regional Hospital and Erie Shores Healthcare said Friday.Recent COVID-19 outbreaks at Hôtel-Dieu Grace and Windsor Regional risk "significant reductions" in bed capacity, while use of beds is already above 100 per cent, they said."As hospital bed capacity deteriorates, clinical teams will have no option other than to cancel scheduled surgeries and other procedures to ensure we have bed space available for emergency and other urgent cases," they stated.There are currently 27 people in hospital with COVID-19 and seven in ICU, according to the Windsor-Essex County Public Health Unit (WECHU). "There is definitely a lot of pressure on the health-care system in the region and also across Southwestern Ontario, Dr. Wajid Ahmed, medical officer of health with WECHU, said Friday.The health unit announced 65 new cases on Friday, bringing the active case total to 424.21 outbreaks in Windsor-EssexDr. Ahmed said there's also record number of outbreaks in the region — 21 across workplaces, long-term care homes and other institutions."We have never had that many outbreaks, clearly indicating that we need to do more," Dr. Ahmed said.As of the most recent data, which Dr. Ahmed presented on Friday, Windsor's seven-day average test positivity rate is 4.3 per cent -- the fourth highest in the province behind Toronto, Peel and York regions.Analysis of the presence of the virus wastewater suggests rates of infection exceed the number of known cases, Ahmed said.Not moving to lockdown Despite the rising cases, the province did not announce a lockdown for Windsor-Essex on Friday, meaning the region remains in the red "control" zone of COVID-19 restrictions in place since Monday.Dr. Ahmed said earlier on Friday that he didn't anticipate a lockdown would be announced, though earlier in the week he said the region is at risk of heightened restrictions."We would like to see the results of us in the red zone first before we move on to any criteria at this time," he said.Snapshot of the pandemic in Windsor-EssexSince the pandemic started, 3,864 cases have been diagnosed in Windsor-Essex, 3,358 of which have been resolved.Eighty-two people have lost their lives to COVID-19, including 56 death in longterm care and retirement homes.Of the 65 cases announced across the region Friday , five are close contacts of a confirmed case, two were community acquired, 58 are still under investigation. Twenty-seven people are in hospital, with seven in the intensive care unit.There are 21 outbreaks in the community, including eight at workplaces. * Three in Leamington's agriculture sector. * One in Lakeshore's health care and social assistance sector. * One in a Leamington place of worship. * One in Leamington's finance and insurance sector. * One in Windsor's manufacturing sector. * One in Kingsville's manufacturing sectorTwo community outbreaks are still active: one at Victoria Manor Supportive Living in Windsor and another at Riverplace Residence in Windsor. There are three school outbreaks: Corpus Christi Catholic Middle School - Central Park Athletics Campus, Frank W. Begley Public School and W. J. Langlois Catholic Elementary School. The latter two schools have been closed for two weeks. Officials are working on a reopening plan for both schools.There are outbreaks at six long-term care and retirement homes: * Chartwell St. Clair Beach in Tecumseh with one resident case. * Village of Aspen Lake in Tecumseh with one staff case. * Leamington Mennonite in Leamington with two staff cases. * Chartwell Royal Oak Residence in Kingsville with two staff cases. * Riverside place in Windsor with 17 resident cases and three staff cases. * Iler Lodge in Essex with 18 resident cases and three staff cases. 22 hours ago The Canadian Press Alaska Rep. Young returns to work after coronavirus recovery ANCHORAGE, Alaska — U.S. Rep. Don Young of Alaska has returned to work after recovering from COVID-19, his office said.Young's staff said the veteran Republican lawmaker was back at work in his congressional office in Washington, D.C., The Anchorage Daily News reported Wednesday.The 87-year-old announced Nov. 12 he had tested positive for the coronavirus.In March, Young referred to the coronavirus as the “beer virus” before an audience that included older Alaskans and said the media had contributed to hysteria over COVID-19. His campaign manager told the Anchorage Daily News at the time that the virus’ impact is real and that Young was trying to urge calm.After contracting the virus, Young said he had not grasped the severity of the illness.“Very frankly, I had not felt this sick in a very long time, and I am grateful to everyone who has kept me in their thoughts and prayers,” Young said following his release from an Anchorage hospital Nov. 16.Young is now “preparing to fight harder than ever” for Alaskans, spokesman Zack Brown said.Voters last month reelected Young, Alaska’s lone U.S. representative, to serve his 25th term in office.Young has held his seat since 1973 and is the longest-serving Republican in congressional history.For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some — especially older adults and people with existing health problems — it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, and death.The number of infections is thought to be far higher because many people have not been tested, and studies suggest people can be infected with the virus without feeling sick.The Associated Press a day ago The Canadian Press Daddy Yankee achieves new balance, readies for his comeback NEW YORK — A year after a series of concerts in Puerto Rico that ended up being his last because of the pandemic, Daddy Yankee is bringing those performances to YouTube as a Christmas gift to his fans around the globe.“DY2K20,” the digital version of his show “Con Calma Pal’ Choli,” will be released in three parts on Yankee's YouTube channel, with the first installment out Friday. The others will drop on Dec. 14 and Dec. 21, respectively.“I wanted to give a Christmas present to all my fans during the pandemic, bring the party to their homes free of charge, bring them joy in such difficult times,” the reggaeton star told The Associated Press in a phone interview from Miami.Yankee, who has stayed mostly out of the spotlight in 2020, said that while the pandemic has hit many very hard, it has also allowed him to do something he hadn't done in three decades: Focus on his health and rest.It's something he had to gradually learn after gaining 40 pounds (almost 20 kilos) during the first months of quarantine.“Maybe because of the anxiety... I started eating and eating and eating and I put on the pounds like never before. I got to weigh 230 pounds (105 kilos) ... But I recovered my normal weight from 10 years ago. That was my focus,” said the “Despacito” and “Gasolina” singer, adding he achieved his goal by watching what he ate and exercising, a lot.“I devoted myself to my health and to something that was unknown to me, which was rest,” he said. “I started to learn how to live with calmness and to appreciate it... And I feel different, I feel in a new phase completely.”Now that he gained some balance in his life, he feels ready to reactivate his career. In addition to “DY2K20,” he has another surprise for his fans: A new music collaboration he will release in the coming days, although he wouldn't provide details yet.For now, he said he was blessed to finally share with the world the footage of a show staged at the Coliseo de Puerto Rico José Miguel Agrelot, which involved over 80 people who worked with “great passion, great creativity.” It was well-received, going from two scheduled dates to a full residence, with 12 sold-out shows, or 170,000 tickets.What many don't know is that a technical problem on opening night resulted in a new business opportunity: Massive concerts in the daylight hours, something never seen before on the island.After getting stuck on a platform over the stage, Yankee announced to the audience that he would give them an extra show for free, and it was a matinee. He adjusted the content to make it family friendly, and ended up doing one more that way.Another unique aspect of “Con Calma Pal’ Choli,” which featured artists like Ozuna, Wisin & Yandel and Nicky Jam, was the use of holograms to replace those who weren't there to perform live.“I wanted the artists to be gigantic, on people's faces, so the audience could feel that they were in front of them and we achieved that,” Yankee said. “It was a concert that became a residence, like if Las Vegas had moved to Puerto Rico.”___Follow Sigal Ratner-Arias on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sigalratner.Sigal Ratner-Arias, The Associated Press 23 hours ago Ad•Wakefit Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdSpecial Price Discounts on Wakefit Mattresses! 30% off on memory foam Wakefit mattresses. Use code 'SALARYDAY' & get special price discounts. 10yr warranty & removable zipper covers for easy wash. Local Journalism Initiative University refutes whistleblower, wrongful dismissal allegations The University of Northern British Columbia is denying a former employee's claim that she was wrongfully dismissed because she blew the whistle on alleged improper conduct by the university's upper management. In a response filed November 19 at the Prince George courthouse, UNBC says Heather Sanford was let go as the university secretary on March 13 to help deal with a $3.5 million budget shortfall at the university. UNBC says Sanford's position was being covered through "soft funding" and because of that, the position was being held on a "term basis" through a series of contracts, the last of which was set to expire at the end of June. In a statement of claim filed in October, Sanford says had been dismissed because she had "blown the whistle" on how various matters related to the Board of Governors were handled, notably a salary increase for UNBC's then-president Daniel Weeks and terms of separation for then-vice president of finance Barb Daigle. "The Plaintiff essentially claims that her employment was terminated because she was critical of how UNBC discharged its administrative and governance functions," UNBC says. "That claim is false and the Defendant puts the Plaintiff to the strict proof of each of her allegations and the reasons therefore." As university secretary, Sanford says she was responsible for "ensuring the effective and efficient operation of UNBC's administrative and academic governing bodies." But in the response, UNBC suggests Sanford's authority was limited to "advisory only." "It (her position) has no gatekeeping or oversight function and is not charged with vetting or approving any governance issues. The Office has no decision making authority with respect to any governance issues." UNBC goes on to say it acted in accordance with advice provided by the Public Sector Employers Council with respect to Weeks' salary increase and with legal advice with respect to making public the terms of separation reached with Daigle when she left in January. However, while UNBC says Sanford was let go on a "without cause basis," it also notes that interim president Geoff Payne found Sanford "came across as confrontational," and wanted her to be "more collaborative which is better aligned with how universities generally approach decision making." But with her contract about to expire at the end of June, and with Sanford on stress leave by that time, UNBC says Payne determined it would be unfair to engage her with respect to her communication style and that she was still remunerated to the end of her contract, despite ending her employment early. The claim also notes that Sanford is married to Dan Ryan, who during his time as UNBC's interim provost and vice president academic, filled in as acting president when then-president Daniel Weeks was absent. Given her husband's role, it would have been inappropriate for Sanford to sit in on closed Board of Governors meetings when issues related to the president were discussed, UNBC says. When Weeks went on medical leave in January 2020, it was Payne, not Ryan, who took over as interim president. Ryan, meanwhile, resigned from his position in August and went on research leave. UNBC also disputes Sanford's claim that she was excluded from a review of governance at the university. While Sanford maintained the review should have been carried out by her office, UNBC says she was interviewed by a third party, consultant Harriet Lewis, who was put in charge of the review while former UNBC president Charles Jago was named a supporting advisor. Sanford's "observations were included in the external review report."Mark Nielsen, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Prince George Citizen 21 hours ago The Canadian Press Montenegro's parliament approves new, pro-Serb government PODGORICA, Montenegro — Montenegro’s parliament on Friday voted to approve a new conservative, pro-Serb coalition government, which will succeed a pro-Western party that has ruled the small Balkan nation for almost three decades.Prime Minister Zdravko Krivokapic' cabinet is dominated by unelected technocrats, and its approval follows more than three months of negotiations with coalition partners after their narrow victory in August parliamentary elections.Lawmakers in the 81-seat parliament voted 41-28 Friday for the new government, with 12 abstentions.Krivokapic is a 62-year-old former university professor and political novice. His coalition was formed with the main goal of unseating the long-ruling DPS party of Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic, whom it accuses of rampant corruption, links with organized crime, and “dictatorship.”Djukanovic and his government defied neighbouring Serbia and its ally Russia to join NATO in 2017, and have brought the country of some 620,000 people to the threshold of the European Union.Krivokapic has promised to abide by NATO membership obligations and to work on speeding up EU accession, despite demands from his own coalition for closer ties with Slavic allies Serbia and Russia.The new prime minister has said his cabinet’s priorities will be to fight the coronavirus, bring the country out of a deep economic crisis triggered by the pandemic, and ensure what he called the “real rule of law.”He also pledged good relations with Serbia and other neighbours, and promised to work on creating conditions for holding what he called the “first fair democratic elections” in Montenegro.Krivokapic is considered close to the Serbian Orthodox Church which led months of protests in Montenegro against a law passed by the previous government that the church said would impound its property in Montenegro. The former government rejected those claims.Although they pledged to vote for the new government, the coalition officials criticized Krivokapic’s choice of government ministers and his position that Montenegro should continue on its pro-Western course. They said politicians, instead of technocrats, should lead the new government.“If everything will remain the same, we shouldn’t have taken part in the election,” said Milan Knezevic, a leader of the largest pro-Serb group in the new governing coalition.Serbia and Montenegro were part of the same country before an independence referendum in 2006 led to Montenegro splitting away.Montenegro remains deeply divided among those seeking closer ties with Serbia and Russia and those who view Montenegro as an independent state allied with the West. Serbs represent about 30% of its population.Predrag Milic, The Associated Press 21 hours ago CBC UBC, SFU, Capilano University extend winter breaks for a week The University of British Columbia, Simon Fraser University and Capilano University have announced they are extending their upcoming winter breaks, so students and staff can better prepare for another term under pandemic restrictions.Students at all three schools will now be returning to class on Jan. 11 instead of Jan. 4. UBC said the change applies to both its Vancouver and Okanagan campuses."As many of you have noted, there have been extraordinary pressures on our students, faculty and staff this year due to COVID-19," UBC president Santa J. Ono wrote in the notice."The hope is that by allowing a delayed start to classes, we can help our students, faculty and staff to better prepare for Winter Session Term 2."Post-secondary institutions around the world have spent the term adjusting to remote learning, with both students and faculty becoming all too familiar with the challenges of distanced education — from misunderstood assignments to allegations of cheating on virtual exams.SFU and Capilano University said both groups need the extended break."We recognize everyone is tired as we deal with the changes this pandemic has brought to how we teach and how our students learn," wrote SFU vice-president, academic and provost Catherine Dauvergne."This one-week delayed start provides faculty with additional time to prepare for the beginning of the new term in a remote, adapted model," said the statement from Capilano. "Students will have a longer break between terms to rejuvenate, and more time to prepare for classes."Capilano said the delayed start means the spring term will end on April 16 instead of April 9. SFU said the start of classes in the summer term will also be delayed by about a week.UBC did not specify when its spring term will finish, but said exams will still be written no later than April.As for elementary and high schools in B.C., the Ministry of Health has not announced plans to extend the winter break — but the option is not off the table."It's incredibly important for families and for children to have in-person, in-class [education], but we're looking at all of our options,'' Provincial Health Officer Dr. Bonnie Henry told reporters on Nov. 16. 22 hours ago Ad•Amazon India Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdAmazon Wardrobe Refresh Sale Stay #HarPalFashionable with up to 70% off on all your favorite brands. Are you ready? Initiative de journalisme local L'entente de réconciliation est signée entre IOC et deux communautés innues Après une longue saga, voilà que les communautés innues de Uashat mak Mani-utenam et Matimekush-Lac John ont signé une entente de réconciliation et de collaboration avec la Compagnie minière IOC. Depuis 2010, de nombreuses négociations ont eu lieu entre la minière et les deux communautés. Une poursuite judiciaire avait même été entamée contre IOC. Au cœur du litige se trouvait l’exploitation du Nitassinan (territoire ancestral traditionnel des Innus) qui a été exploité sans le consentement des Innus. L'entente qui a été ratifiée aujourd'hui prévoit notamment que l'entreprise minière fournira des paiements financiers, des avantages en matière d’emploi et des opportunités d’affaires aux communautés innues ainsi qu’une meilleure collaboration sur le plan environnemental. L’entente prévoit également que IOC présente des excuses. Les deux communautés se sont engagées à retirer les poursuites judiciaires qui avaient été intentées contre la compagnie. Cet accord a été baptisé « Ussiniun », ce qui signifie « renouveau » en langue innue. « Cette entente marque le début d’une nouvelle relation avec IOC, basée sur le respect et le partenariat. Les compensations et les retombées pour nos membres nous permettront de prendre encore plus en main le développement de notre communauté. Le respect démontré par IOC nous permettra de tourner la page sur un historique de conflits et de regarder l’avenir avec optimisme », a affirmé le Chef de Uashat mak Mani-utenam. De son côté, le président et chef de la direction de IOC, Clayton Walker, a déclaré : « Cette entente à long terme est une étape importante qui nous permet d'avancer ensemble et de construire des relations solides basées sur le respect, la confiance et les avantages mutuels. Nous nous engageons à travailler en collaboration avec les communautés de Uashat mak Mani-utenam et de Matimekush-Lac John afin de concrétiser les nombreux avantages de cette entente pour toutes les parties concernées. » L'entente qui a été acceptée en août par les deux communautés innues a par la suite été présentée aux membres de chacune des communautés. Un référendum a été effectué dans la communauté de Matimekush-Lac John pour approuver l'entente et l'option du oui l'a emportée à 83%.Vincent Berrouard, Initiative de journalisme local, Le Nord-Côtier 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative Tax collection on track for Tisdale COVID-19 has made things difficult for municipalities, especially when it came to tax collection for the 2020 tax year. During a normal year, Tisdale has a reminiscing tax discount period from May to November, with a 15 per cent tax discount for those residents who pay in May and the discount diminishing over the following months by five per cent, said Brad Hvidston, Tisdale’s administrator With COVID causing financial challenges for residents, Hvidston said they changed the rates so the discount dropped by two per cent over the following months so that residents could still take advantage of the discount if they paid later. While Al Jellicoe, Tisdale’s mayor, said this was appreciated by residents, tax payments came into the town as usual with 95 per cent of property taxes paid by the end of May, Hvidston said. People save up during the year, he said, in order to take advantage of that discount. “By the time COVID hit in March and taxes were due in May, a large amount of people had their taxes mostly accumulated by them. I'm anticipating that next year will be the year that we see the impact on COVID.” With tax challenges being expected for the coming year, Hvidston said the council will have to decide how they can help residents deal with this in the future. The tax update was reported during the council meeting on Nov. 30.Becky Zimmer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 23 hours ago Local Journalism Initiative 14-year old St. Catharines student spells W-I-N at national championship Niagara is now home to one of the best young spellers in Canada. Leena Jalees, 14, of St. Catharines took home the gold at this year’s Spelling Bee of Canada national championship, beating out 25 other competitors in the intermediate division (ages 12-14) across the country. Jalees, who has entered the regional competitions on two previous occasions, said this was her first time reaching the national level, after winning Niagara’s competition earlier in November. Jalees said she had always been a good speller, particularly when it came to everyday words, and thought entering a spelling bee would help her expand her spelling abilities when it came to new and unfamiliar words. “I thought it would be fun to learn new words, and become a better speller, and know the tactics of how to break down the words and be able to spell words I have never heard of before. So I decided to do a spelling bee, just to see how well I could do.” Jalees did more than okay. In her first appearance on the national stage, she was crowned the winner in the intermediate division of the Spelling Bee of Canada after correctly spelling the word “taxonomist”. For Jalees, the word was a no-brainier. “When I found out that was the word, I was so relieved because I was already familiar with that word. I already knew how to spell it, so I didn’t have to think about it.” So how does one study for a spelling bee? The competitors were given a manual of 400 words two and a half weeks prior to the competition, but that doesn’t include tiebreaker words, which are entirely new, and come down to the participants' ability to break down the word itself. Jalees said her strategy involves looking at the words as multiple units, and understanding the origin of the word itself. “One of the words was polemicist. I thought it was a medical word, but then when I knew it had to do with politics, then I decided to change the way I spelled it to ending in 'cist'. So I was very grateful I didn’t start spelling it the way I was initially going to.” Jalees, who hopes to one day be an OB/GYN said she hopes to defend her title at next year’s competition, as it may be her last year of eligibility. “I am going to try again next year, and see how well I can do again.” Also representing Niagara at the national championship were Jimmy Zhou, of Niagara Falls, who competed in the junior division (ages 9-11) and Shirley Chen, of St. Catharines, who competed in the primary division (ages 6-8).Bryan Levesque, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Grimsby Lincoln News 23 hours ago Ad•Club Mahindra Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdJoin Club Mahindra at an Easy EMI of Rs. 4,953 Club Mahindra cares for you! #TravelWithConfidence to our 100+ resorts with our covid-19 & travel insurance and create magical memories. T & C apply. Local Journalism Initiative Lac La Ronge Tri-community leaders excited to get to work With the election of Colin Ratushniak and Julie Baschuk, and the re-election of Chief Tammy Cook-Searson, the leaders of the Lac La Ronge Tri-Community are excited to start working together to improve the Lac La Ronge area. This has included some quick work by the leaders and their administration to push for a mandatory masking policy in the tri-community area that matched provincial regulations. When the provincial government brought in a mandatory masking policy for all Saskatchewan communities over 5,000 people, the communities of La Ronge and Air Ronge and the Lac La Ronge Indian Band did not individually fit that bill. Mandatory masking mandates were slowly increasing as the number of new cases in the province started to grow and policies in Saskatchewan’s major cities were announced on Nov. 3. By Nov. 13, all communities over 5,000 were required to have mask requirements for public spaces. Together, the Lac La Ronge Tri-Communities did have the necessary 5,000 person population for the government to include them in the masking policy and a letter to the province was quickly drafted and signed by all three leaders that same day. Thanks to the Village of Air Ronge staff the letter was drafted and signed as quickly as possible with the letter even being taken to leaders’ homes at 10 p.m. on Friday, Dec. 13, Ratushniak said. Even though the province has since expanded its mandatory masking policy to include the entire province, this letter is still a sign of something bigger, said Ratushniak, La Ronge’s newly elected mayor. “It shows our willingness to work together to work for better things in the communities and safety in general. Masking is just one part of the equation, I think that there's much more that needs to be done.” Baschuk unseated long-serving former Air Ronge mayor Gordon Stomp, who had an uninterrupted reign since 1977 when the village was incorporated. While people respected the work that Stomp has done, the voting results showed that they are excited for the potential that Baschuk brings to the table, she said. A diverse and inclusive council was something that she wanted coming into the mayor's chair, Baschuk said, as well as a more modernized way of communicating and being transparent with residents of Air Ronge. Seeing how women are underrepresented in government and business, seeing the mixed council at the table is great to see, she said. “It's nice to see the community be able to stand with me and support me along in this. And we saw two other women elected to our councils. We now have two women and two men [and] we've got a lot more equality happening, which is fabulous.” Cook-Searson has worked with four different mayors from La Ronge and Air Ronge during her time as chief of the Lac La Ronge Indian Band and was re-elected for her sixth term in May. When she was first elected in 2005, she was the youngest among the three leaders. Now she finds she is the oldest, she laughed. With Ratushniak and Baschuk new to the mayoral roles, Cook-Searson is excited to continue the various partnerships among the three communities, including their shared sewer, water, and fire services. Now, she said, the relationship is even more open between the three with Cook-Searson saying she can text the other two and have discussions whenever something comes up. With a diverse leadership team, Baschuk said they are going to bring fresh perspectives to the table with a community that has room to grow. “Right off the hop we're willing to work together in a co-operative way, so we know that and improve the quality of life within each of our communities.” While Baschuk knows that they are not the only ones in the province working together as municipal partners, she hopes that the tri-community can be role models to other communities who want to join together to solve local issues.Becky Zimmer, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, The Battlefords Regional News-Optimist 22 hours ago euronews Videos Michelin-starred restaurant offers cook-at-home takeaways The restaurant is owned by Simon Wood, a winner of the reality TV programme Masterchef UKView on euronews a day ago Local Journalism Initiative Man makes most of horrific accident Dale Woodard Lethbridge Herald John Wayne Yakimyshyn has spent his entire life around horses. But a mishap with one set the longtime Hollywood horse trainer on a different career path and one that he hopes will assist people as well. After a horrific accident with a horse a little over three years ago that nearly left him paralyzed, Yakimyshyn has gone from trainer to businessman, designing the Giddyupz, an attachment that goes on the grab handle in trucks, jeeps, semis, and other off-road vehicles to help assist people in and out of the vehicle. “You can put this on the back of a seat rail for the backseat passenger so they can hold on,” said Yakimyshyn. Now back in Lethbridge for the past two months, Yakimyshyn is unveiling his patented item. “I picked Lethbridge not only because I lived here 20 years ago, but it’s kind of cowboy country,” said Yakimyshyn. “I thought with my background, the horses and the word Giddyupz, it’s also a good retirement community, so I figured a lot of people would need this.” Yakimyshyn’s path to horse training started as a youngster on a road trip from his hometown of Vegreville to Calgary. “In 1963 Roy Rogers and Dale Evans were in Calgary at the Stampede as the marshals,” said Yakimyshyn. “I remember sitting on the side of the road watching Roy Rogers and my parents explained to me who Roy Rogers was. I told them at that time, at five years old, ‘I can do that,’ when they explained what Trigger (Roger’s Palomino horse) did.” Growing up in Vegreville, horses were always a part of Yakimyshyn’s upbringing. “We had a machinery dealership and a Dodge dealership and my parents always had a couple of farms,” he said. “We worked on the farms and every weekend my brothers and I would pretend we were playing “Bonanza.” We had all the little horses and we would ride together in the fields and that’s how it started.” In the early-1970s, Yakimyshyn started training horses on his own. The paid off in 1984 when he headed to California to work with noted trainer Glen Randall. “One day I found an article with Glen Randall,” said Yakimyshyn. “I called him from home in Vegreville and he said ‘You know what, son? You bring me $6,000 cash and come and train with me.’ That was a lot of money back then. He didn’t know me from nothing, just some guy calling him on the phone. So I loaded up two horses, took $6,000 in cash and I went all the way down to Hollywood and I started working with him.” Arriving in his big Dodge van that he slept in, Yakimyshyn started work the moment he drove into the yard. “We were training Andalusian horses for some San Diego bullfights,” he said. “This was for movies, so nobody was getting hurt. But we had to teach the horses to pretend they’re going into a bullfight and dance sideways. It’s all trick stuff, nobody got hurt. I was the only one who got hurt in 60-something years.” Yakimyshyn and Randall also worked with Black Stallion horses from Francis Ford Coppola movies. “I knew a lot because I was self-taught, but I learned a lot from him.” Yakimyshyn also worked with actor David Hasselhoff on an episode of “Knight Rider” in 1985. “I worked on the set and it was called ‘Knight By A Nose,’” said Yakimyshyn. “You’ll see a few black horses running around and I was dressed up as an Arab sheik. The horse was supposed to fight me and fight him and run away. But we had two horses on the set. So one was like a pussycat and the other was a fighting horse. So you had to teach them to pretend to fight.” Yakimyshyn continued to work off and on as a Hollywood trainer. “Anytime they needed you, you went there. There was some stuff shot in Vancouver and a little bit was done in Alberta,” he said. Then came the accident on Oct. 12, 2017 that put Yakimyshyn on a different career path. “I’ll never forget it, 11 in the morning,” he said. “They brought a new horse onto the set. I had been training and getting horses ready for the new season for the week and all the horses were fine. I was teaching them to drop their heads and smile and do all kinds of cute things.” A new Palomino was brought onto the set. “They said they were using him,” said Yakimyshyn. “I asked if he was broke for cameras and (was told) ‘No problem, he’s broken.’ So I get on him and we used him on film for four hours.” Afterwards there was a break in the filming and Yakimyshyn went to feed the Palomino some grain. “As I’m walking back, I’m probably three feet away from the movie star,” he said. “We’re talking and I have a loose rein. I was in an RCMP saddle from the early 1900s, which means the horn is very high and the back is very high and it’s all made of steel. So when you sit in the saddle it grips your legs so they could fight with a sword or knife and not fall out of the saddle.” Suddenly, the horse started bucking. “I don’t what happened to the horse,” said Yakimyshyn. “He went nuts immediately, starting bucking, broke my front pelvis completely off, broke my back pelvis off my backbone, flipped over, cut me in half and knocked me out on the ground. I was knocked out while I was on the back of the horse. “So I woke up screaming, not crying, screaming. I had no idea where the horse was. I was told he was fine. He just went crazy for some reason.” An ambulance arrived on the scene inside of a half hour. “I lost half my blood and I couldn’t see my legs,” said Yakimyshyn. “I asked ‘Where are my legs?’ and they said they were pulled out of the sockets. Within a half inch I would have been paralyzed.” Yakimyshyn’s spine was crushed in the accident. “I have eight, six-inch bolts holding me together,” he said. Yakimyshyn spent time in a trauma centre and briefly in a senior’s home before taking up residence in a hotel room in Chilliwack. “I laid in bed, rolled into the washroom, walked by cane and wheelchair and it took me one year to walk again,” said Yakimyshyn, who still walks with a cane when he needs it. He also deals with nerve damage and arthritis. As he got his mobility back, the first prototypes of the Giddyupz starting taking shape. “How this happened with Giddyupz is a friend of mine had a brand new Ford pickup truck and he wanted to take me out for groceries when I was in a wheelchair,” said Yakimyshyn. “So I rolled up and I couldn’t reach the grab handle. He couldn’t help me because if you’re standing in the crease of a door you can’t lift somebody up with my weight – I’m 200 pounds — and safely put me in. So I said ‘I have to figure this out.’” And so, the first grab handles started taking shape. “I came up with the grab handle extender,” said Yakimyshyn. “It’s made of leather. But the nice thing is we graduated to synthetic with our name stamped in that can hold over 1,500 pounds. The leather one will hold hundreds of pounds, the synthetic one will hold 1,500 pounds without breaking.” To demonstrate strength of the Giddyupz, Yakimyshyn showed a photo of the grab handle extender lifting the front end of a 1,500-pound tractor. “It’s just a couple of bolts and some screws. This material is so strong we’re using it for different applications,” said Yakimyshyn, who has also invented the lasso and the stirrup to help the elderly get out of their chair or lift their legs up in cars. “It took me three years and over 7,000 hours and over $70,000 invested,” said Yakimyshyn. Given its name, the Giddyupz will follow a familiar theme. “It’s going to be all cowboy related,” said Yakimyshyn, who is two months into his business venture and was set up at the Christmas Market last weekend. “We’ve only been selling out of the factory so far to people I have contacted.” Some big names south of the border already own the Giddyupz. “Jay Leno called me on March 7 at 10 a.m. and he invited me to his place in Hollywood. I sent him four Giddyupz and he absolutely loves them,” said Yakimyshyn, adding Bob Lutz, former president of Chrysler and General Motors, Warren Buffett and even Donald Trump have used the Giddyupz. “So a lot of important people in the States already have this product.” A Giddyupz grab handle goes for $35. “It’s made in Alberta by an Albertan and it’s patented and trademarked,” said Yakimyshyn. For more information on The Giddyupz Corporation, visit their Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/GiddyupzCorporation2020 Follow @DWoodardHerald on TwitterDale Woodard, Local Journalism Initiative Reporter, Lethbridge Herald 21 hours ago Ad•ICICI Lombard Why this Ad? Ad Feedback Why don't you like this ad? It is offensive to me It is not relevant to me I keep seeing this Something else Submit Thank you for your feedback. We will remove this and make the changes needed. AdNo Room Rent Cap - ICICI Lombard CHI Protect your savings from expensive medical bills. The Canadian Press Miguel Algarín, a founder of beloved NYC poetry space, dies NEW YORK — Miguel Algarín, poet, professor and a founder of New York City's beloved Nuyorican Poets Café performance space, has died. He was 79. Algarín died Monday at a Manhattan hospital from sepsis, said Daniel Gallant, executive director of the Nuyorican Poets Café. Born in Puerto Rico, Algarín and his family came to New York City when he was a child. After Algarín had returned to New York with degrees from the University of Wisconsin and Pennsylvania State University, he held gatherings with other poets in his apartment in the early 1970s, exploring Puerto Rican identity and other themes. Out of that was created the Nuyorican Poets Café, which by 1981 had moved to a building on Manhattan's lower east side where it remains. “Miguel was a brilliant poet, an influential professor and leader, and a supportive mentor who inspired and guided generations of artists," Gallant said. Algarín was a prolific writer, with multiple books of poetry to his name, and edited several anthologies as well. He spent years at Rutgers University in New Jersey, where he taught classes on Shakespeare, creative writing and ethnic literature, and became a professor emeritus. Gallant said the cafe would have an online tribute for Algarín this month, and would do something in person as soon as conditions allow. The Associated Press 23 hours ago Initiative de journalisme local Fort rebond de la construction attendu au Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Ralentie par la pandémie de COVID-19, qui a causé une baisse de 3 % des heures travaillées en 2020, l’industrie de la construction au Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean devrait rebondir de 9 % en 2021, soutenue par les investissements publics. Comme le veut la pratique, la Commission de la construction du Québec (CCQ) vient de publier son bilan 2020 et les perspectives de la prochaine année pour cette industrie qui compte 170 000 travailleurs à travers la province, dont 6000 au Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. Selon les prévisions publiées, les travailleurs oeuvrant dans le secteur des chantiers électriques devraient profiter de l’année 2021 avec l’accélération de la construction de la nouvelle ligne Micoua-Saguenay d’Hydro-Québec, un projet d’une valeur de 793 M$ qui doit être complété en 2022. L’ensemble du projet sera partagé avec la Côte-Nord, qui a subi une baisse de 28 % des heures travaillées en 2020. La CCQ ajoute à la liste la réfection de la centrale d’Isle-Maligne par Rio Tinto, au coût de 160 M$, d’ici 2026, ainsi que la réfection du centre de cuisson d’anodes avec un investissement de 209 M$. La construction du parc éolien Val-Éo figure également parmi les chantiers liés à la production d’électricité. Il y a lieu de croire que certains travailleurs de la région profiteront de la réouverture du chantier Romaine 4, sur la Basse-Côte-Nord, ralenti dans la dernière année par des problèmes de sécurité. La CCQ prédit une hausse de 28 % des heures travaillées. La réfection de la Centrale Rapide-Blanc, en Mauricie, sera également une source d’activités pour les travailleurs de la région, alors qu’un entrepreneur du Lac-Saint-Jean vient d’y décrocher un contrat de 12 M$. Dans le secteur résidentiel, l’année 2021 pourrait être marquée par l’ouverture de trois chantiers de maisons des aînés ainsi que par le début de la construction du stade de soccer intérieur de Jonquière. Le démarrage des grands projets se fait attendre alors que Métaux BlackRock est toujours à la recherche de financement pour pouvoir lancer la construction d’une mine de ferrovanadium et d’une usine à Grande-Anse, bien que l’entreprise ait tous les permis en main pour lancer la construction. Il en va de même pour le projet d’exploitation d’apatite d’Arianne Phosphate. Résidentiel Les données publiées pour la construction résidentielle n’incluent pas de prévisions régionales, mais la CCQ indique que ce secteur terminera 2020 avec 51 550 mises en chantier, une hausse de 7 % comparativement à 2019. Un total de 32 millions d’heures travaillées figure au tableau, en baisse de 3 %. La CCQ prédit une baisse de 3 % en 2021 avec 47 000 habitations construites et 31 millions d’heures travaillées. La baisse du nombre d’entrées de résidants non permanents, qui était en forte croissance ces dernières années, et la crise sanitaire expliquent la baisse anticipée. Industriel Selon les chiffres publiés, l’année 2020 aura été plutôt éprouvante pour le secteur industriel. L’activité allait déjà en ralentissant depuis le milieu de 2019, et le secteur peine à reprendre sa vitesse de croisière depuis la réouverture des chantiers. Le volume de travail s’établira à 9,5 millions d’heures travaillées, en baisse de 17 % par rapport à 2019. Ce sera le plus faible niveau d’activité généré par le secteur depuis le milieu des années 1990. La fermeture des chantiers de la fin mars au début mai explique en grande partie ces faibles résultats. De plus, l’incertitude entourant la pandémie a entraîné l’annulation ou le report de divers projets, comme c’est le cas des travaux prévus par Valero à Lévis, qui sont repoussés à une date indéterminée. Institutionnel Le secteur institutionnel et commercial a été ralenti dans sa forte impulsion amorcée en 2018, et perdra 10 % en 2021, avec un volume de 88,0 millions d’heures travaillées, toujours selon ce qui est avancé par la CCQ. Loin d’être une catastrophe dans les circonstances, ce niveau se révèle être celui qui a été atteint il y a deux ans seulement. En 2021, le secteur reprendra graduellement du poil de la bête, même si l’incertitude risque d’être encore présente. Du côté du commercial, la confiance est ébranlée et différents acteurs privés pourraient repousser leurs projets.Denis Villeneuve, Initiative de journalisme local, Le Quotidien 23 hours ago Reuters Former Malta PM says he had no indication of journalist murder plot Former Malta Prime Minister Joseph Muscat told a board of inquiry on Friday that he had no prior indication of any plans for the 2017 murder of anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia. Muscat was testifying before the public inquiry that he had appointed to look into whether the state could have prevented the murder, which shocked Europe and raised questions about the rule of law on the small Mediterranean island. Schembri resigned a few days earlier, when his close friendship with Fenech was revealed. 22 hours ago More Stories